The Ahl-I-Batin Paradigm

by Tom Helgerson (Natamo 0000)

The Paradigm

Unity- Life is Unity. The drive of Unity is what has not only brought 
together the Traditions but holds the One's structures as well. 
Without Unity, everything would fall apart. While the Sleepers may 
believe in Unity within their small perceptions, our Murids and Murshids 
see Unity for all that it is.

Magick

Will and Flow: Unity may travel on the predetermined paths granted by 
the One, but our Will has the power to shape Unity on a much smaller 
scale.

Spheres

Correspondence, Distance and Locality: By studying and feeling the 
Correspondence Point, we can know the Distance and Locality within and 
out of Unity. The Web of Faith flowed from our deep knowledge of the 
Correspondence Point, and our powers of the Mind.

Forces, Dynamic Flow: The Dynamic flow of Unity through the elements are 
not self energized by themselves, but by the flow of Unity itself. While 
they may seem to take on powers of their own, they are ultimately 
animated by Unity.

Life, Vibrant Flow: Unlike the structured flow of Matter or the dynamism 
of Forces, the Vibrant Flow of Life is self invigorating. While they may 
seem to feed on power from Unity, the strengths of Life have become more 
self-contained and creative.

Matter, Structured Flow: Structure may be the divisions of Stasis, but 
most Matter is in a stasis of sorts. While it may flow with Unity and 
take on forms much like the Forces or Life, the Structured forms of 
Matter are not self-empowering or dynamic in nature. They feed of the 
binds of Unity and move in a predictable flow. This is truly a sphere 
epitomizing the Technocracy.

Mind: Being the source of Life's direction and the focus of Will, the 
Mind is powerful entity. Since the destruction of the Qutbs our 
superiority in Mind has waned, but our current understanding is power 
enough. We perceive that the Mind is not only self-containing (much like 
Life), but it also contains the directions known to itself (conscious), 
and the directions unknown to itself (subconscious).

Prime, Binds of Unity: The true Unity lives in the forces of energy it 
creates for itself. These creations are the binds of Unity that hold all 
things into the One's creation of existence. Any Will may work if it 
sufficiently powered by the binds of Unity.

Spirit, Body of Dreams: From the land of the Umbrae and Dreams, the 
ethereal appear beyond our comprehension. Forming the body of things 
otherwise intangible, most spirits and other dwellers of the Otherworlds 
bring Dynamism and Vibrancy to all they contact.

Time, Flux of Unity: This sphere may be explained with mathematical 
equations and such, but it hardly does it justice. Time is not just the 
relative passing of things throughout, it is all things caught in the 
flux and flow of the Unity. The Unity shifts through Time like grains of 
sand fly in a desert storm. Some things make sense, others are 
incomprehensible.

Arete

Understanding: The level of Understanding attained through study and 
experiences grows and allows the Magus to reach new heights of willing 
Unity's flow.

Quintessence

Binds of Unity: This raw force of pure energy is what drives the flow of 
Unity as well as what forms all things. By harnessing it and hoarding 
it, one may fuel her will-working by easier means. Without the binds of 
Unity, one may will Unity at his whim, but if he also holds the power of 
Unity in his hands, it is easier to force his will upon the Flow.

Paradox

Consequence: Consequence occurs when the Unity rejects the will of a 
Magus. This may happen because the mage did not understand Unity full 
enough or that he did not wield the raw forces of Unity to the needed 
extent.

Awakening

Comprehension: When one finally comprehends the Unity of all things, she 
has Awakened. With comprehension also comes understanding, and the fear 
of consequence.

Mage Specific Backgrounds

Arcane, Shadow: The shadow of the One may fall favorably upon a 
particular Magus. This cloak defends him from the prying eyes of others 
much needed to hide from our enemies.

Avatar, Faith: The force of one's faith can allow for the accumulation 
of the forces of Unity. Such power can be used to fuel the Magus' 
pattern.

Destiny, Will of the One: Since the One is to many, such will is sacred. 
When the One wills it that a mage may live an eventful and glorious 
life, respect is due.

Dream, Remembrance: When one remembers events from a past existence, the 
remembrance is divine. Any information gained is the lore of the past 
and carries valuable details.

Node, Oasis: Access to a source of energy is just as precious as an 
oasis in the desert. A well of the forces that fuel Unity is not only 
coveted by many magi, but the things wars are fought over.



