Some theories about Arcane, the Twilight Zone and the Delirium.

A short lecture by Frater IAM, Magister Templii of Ordo Rosae 
Crucis. Held at vernal equinox meeting of Ordo Hermeticorum.

Fratres et sorores, arcane can be viewed as a kind of denial of a 
mage by reality itself. The mage represents something that static 
reality cannot consistently accommodate within its framework. The 
easiest way to avoid confrontation is to simply ignore the mage as 
much as possible, and this will make sleepers ignore him or her.  
The mage is an active participant in this process. Most mages 
subconsciously deny static reality, which will make it deny them. 
This process will slowly weaken the link to reality, until the mage 
will become very hard to detect for sleepers and much safer for the 
mundane forces. 

On the other hand, the mage now stand outside the security of 
static reality. He may become completely trapped behind the 
scenes, together with everything else reality denies. This is of 
course useful sometimes, but tends to isolate the mage completely. 
The more the mage become a part of this new reality, the harder it 
will become for him to interact with normal reality.  In the long 
run, a mage here will become unable to influence static reality at 
all, living a half-life among the outcast entities of the world. 

Some of you may object to this view, and point out the fact that we 
can control our arcane. It may appear that we do, but in fact most 
mages are victims of it, and tend to rationalise away their lack of 
control. By our will, we can suspend our arcane, by temporarily 
forcing our subconscious to accept static reality.  But this state is 
only temporary, and the subconscious will soon relapse into its 
normal state, reinforcing our arcane. It is my observation that 
many mages have become even more entrenched in their isolation 
after trying to suspend their arcane for long periods. 

In this Twilight Zone, there are lots of dangerous entities, 
inconsistencies and all the plain weirdness that normal reality 
denies. A mage who awakens from static reality will attract these 
things like a magnet, turning the daily life of the mage into a 
surreal novel, as many of you already know from personal 
experience. Most mages live partially behind the scenes all the 
time, occasionally encountering the things behind reality, mostly by 
accident. When a mage suffers from reality distortions by paradox, 
they get pushed deeper and deeper into this world. The hobgoblins 
are typical denizens here, as are all the little coincidences and 
synchronities that crop up all the time when a mage is present. A 
mage must be very careful here, to avoid having the already frail 
link to reality broken by blindly accepting this semi-reality. On the 
other hand, ignoring it could be an even greater mistake, as many 
extreme dangers lurk here. 

Reality not only denies mages, weirdness and other obvious 
irritants. As the technomancer hold on reality tightens, more and 
more things will become pushed over the edge when they don't fit 
in. Already some people, mostly elderly, sick and poor, are ignored 
so much they disappear into the worlds backstage. This happens 
with increasing frequency, as normal people do their best to ignore 
things that don't fit in. We have reached the point that some errors 
in the technomancer-defined reality will become invisible to the 
sleepers.

This might be the explanation of the delirium of the garou. Reality 
has begun to deny their existence, and sleepers can no longer see 
them. If this process continues, the garou will become more and 
more pushed into the dream world, losing their ability to interact 
with static reality altogether. The disappearance of the Faerie may 
have the same cause. Since they in their natural state tend to deny 
static reality and due to their mercurial nature, they were forced 
out into the Twilight Zone first of all. The same thing is true for the 
kindred. Their masquerade may be a convenient, coincidental 
explanation for the fact that they also are pushed out, albeit less 
violently than the garou (This may have something to do with the 
fact that the Garou oppose the transition, while the kindred 
welcome it, as it suits their purposes.). 

What can be done about this situation? Except obvious strategies of 
reality-manipulation, there are two possibilities. One is to accept it, 
and try to make the best of it. This is the easy way, a method too 
many of The Continuum have already, consciously or not, chosen. 
Another strategy is to try to find ways of making our own 
subconscious accept not only our own reality, but also other 
realities like static reality. This might be very hard, but I believe 
that this is one of the essential steps in The Seeking. We must find 
the fine balance between static and dynamic reality. If we do not 
do that, we will become denizens of the Twilight Zone.

In nomine Tetragrammaton: Ateh. Malkuth. Ve Geburah. Ve 
Gedulah. Le Olam Amen.
