		Curious Magickal Items
(By frater IAM, Magister Templii of Ordo Rosae Crucis)
------------------------------------------------------

Besides the useful talismans and foci mages use there is a 
bewildering array of weird and wonderful things that can be found 
inside the labs of an old chantry. Some of these have useless but 
interesting magickal effects, like the Cursing Shell. Others are quite 
powerful, or show evidence of extremely powerful magick (like the 
Cube of Vacuum). And others may be completely nonmagickal but 
nevertheless interesting, like the Axe of Paracelsius. 

During the late 11th century, an obscure Hermetic scholar named 
Andreas Arenamontanus collected many of the most weird and 
wonderful magickal items known in his work "De Naturae 
Mysteris". While it also contained quite a bit of speculations, 
exaggerations and outright lies, it has remained a standard work 
about strange magickal artefacts. This list is a feeble attempt to 
name a few of the weird things the author has come across in his 
studies.


The Cube of Vacuum
------------------
This is an old artefact. It is a small cube of tarnished steel and lead, 
about 5 centimetres across. Inside it exists a pure vacuum. Not just 
the absence of air, but the absence of *everything*. There is no 
energy, no matter, no time, no space and no prime inside it. The 
enchantments which made this feat possible is lost in the mists of 
time. It is rumoured to have been created by Void Engineers during 
the late middle ages, perhaps even by Copernicus himself. Others 
claim it is the work of a powerful Euthanatos mage, who succeeded 
so well that he ceased to have existed at all. Only the cube remains.

Regardless of the origin of the cube, it is an unique item many 
mages would like to have. The Void Engineers are rumoured to 
search for it, as does the Euthanatei and the Order of Hermes. 
During the centuries it has passed down many hands. 

What could it be used for? As an Entropy foci or the foci for Prime-
removal magick have been proposed. Some imaginative mages 
think it could contain the secrets about how to create more True 
Vacuum. Some paranoid mages claim it is a Nephendi artefact 
created to lure mages to find this out, and thus destroy the 
Universe. Most mages who have had it agree that it is most useful 
as a paper weight. 


The Statue of Ho
----------------
The Statue is a small figurine of jade, showing a Chinese astrologer 
(Reputedly the astrologer Ho, colleague to Hsi. They were executed 
by the emperor for failing to predict a solar eclipse due to their 
drunkenness). According to many mages it protects the owner 
from the Technocracy, and is said to have a certain sense of 
humour. Exactly how (and if) this is done is unknown, but most 
mages believe it is done by coincidental effects.


The Paper
---------
This is exactly what it looks like, a normal blank writing paper. 
When someone writes on it, the text will disappear after a few 
seconds. It also seems to absorb text from around it, turning a few 
pages in a nearby book blank (often coincidentally. The mage 
knows there was an appendix C, but now there isn't. Must have 
misremembered). 

What makes the paper really interesting is the fact that it can be 
read when the light is very dim, almost too dark to read. Then text 
appears on the paper. The shown text can be anything; from pages 
of technical manuals to love letters. It seems that the paper have 
been around for a long time. Its exact origin or use is unknown.


Box of Forgetfulness
--------------------
This item is a small oaken box. Its surface is carved into quite 
impressive pictures of Greek gods and goddesses, with the goddess 
of Memory, Mnemosyne, in the middle. It could be any fancy cigar-
box. But when any item is put inside it, the person who put the 
item inside the box will immediately forget about it. This 
forgetfulness will last until the victim is reminded in any way. 

According to rumour, it was created by a member of Cult of Ecstasy 
who wanted to quit smoking. There are other amusing tales about 
the box and lost foci and talismans, but most of them are stories of 
the "Absentminded hermetic mage"-type, and probably untrue. 
That Arenamontanus forgot his glasses inside for over a year is 
definitely untrue.


The Cursing Shell
-----------------
This shell is a quite ordinary, albeit rather nice, seashell. But when 
shaken, a listener who puts it against his ear will hear a stream of 
quite creative invectives. The origin of the curses, swearwords and 
other foul language are believed to be a small demon trapped 
inside the shell. Could be used as an ice-breaker on parties, or as a 
learning tool.


The Amagickal Rock
------------------
This is a small piece of rock, about 10 cm wide and 7 across. It is 
some sort of marble, and at least one side show some signs of 
chiselling. What is unusual is the fact that it is absolute immune 
against *any* magick. It will not reveal its composition to Matter 
magick. It cannot be moved with Forces. It will not crumble when 
Entropy is used. It will not disappear when a mage tries to drain its 
Prime. According to malicious rumour, an entire chantry of the Celestial 
Chorus spent a week trying to destroy or even move it. 

Some mages have suggested that it is not real, but some kind of 
collective hallucination. Arenamontanus claim it is made of some 
kind of extremely dense Prime, which normal magick cannot touch. 
An Alchemist thought it was a piece of rock that had evolved to its 
highest level, but soon found out that it could be damaged with 
mundane means.


Postcard of a Strike
--------------------
This is a postcard, quite old and yellowed, depicting a sunny beach 
(maybe in southern England). It has an unintelligible address and 
text, written with a very shaky handwriting. What is unusual with 
it, is the fact that every time it is posted (with a new stamp of 
course), the Post Office will go on strike. Every time. The postcard 
will be lost during the strike, and must be tracked down again. 
Somehow, it always resurfaces at another mage or awakened being.

Some anarchistic Hollow Ones find this fun, and constantly tracks it 
down, post it, track it down and so on. Other mages want to study it, 
but somehow they always miss it. Unfortunately the author is in 
this category.


The Pentacle of Vladimir Koronov
--------------------------------
This pentacle is an exquisite design in glass. It is a masterpiece of 
art, filled with tiny miniatures and symbols made of the finest 
filigree, with interlacing fibres of gold. It is beautiful, fragile and 
extremely interesting. Every time someone studies it he will notice 
new symbols and pictures, often quite unexpected. Many pictures 
cleverly overlap or exist inside each other. Some imaginative 
members of the Order claims that every secret truth of the 
universe exists inside the convoluted pictures. Most persons who 
have seen it almost agree.

The pictures depict almost everything; from hermetic allegories for 
profound magickal truths, over burlesque scenes to abstract 
patterns. There are labyrinths with alchemical signs where 
mythical creatures roam. There are religious celebrations showing 
age old hermetic mysticism. There are baroque scenes from the 
Russian nobility, interleaved with the simple life of the peasants 
and allegories of cabala. Almost anything can be found if one knows 
where to look. 

Vladimir Koronov was one of the most skilled craftsmen in the 
whole Order of Hermes during the early 18th century. Although he 
was only an acolyte for all his life, he created artwork embodying 
the deepest truths known to the order. This Pentacle, created for 
the regent of the chantry is his greatest work. It has passed from 
master to apprentice since then, and have become a symbol of the 
hermetic worldview.


The Travelling Marble
---------------------
The marble is an unassuming piece of green glass, which have the 
unusual power to always disappear from the owner at an 
inopportune moment, and sometimes return. It will fall down a hole 
in the pocket, become stolen by a bird, roll down the drain or 
otherwise disappear. The more the owner tries to keep it, the more 
probable it is that it escapes. After some time it may return, 
especially if the owner have been nice to it (how does one behave 
nicely to glass marble?). It is found lying in the gutter, inside the 
freshly caught fish or perhaps drops out from a window into the 
hand of the owner. Some owners have lost the marble dozens of 
times. It is almost like it played hide and seek with the mage.


The True Book of Lies
---------------------
This is one of the most devious jokes (?) of Aleister Crowley. It is a 
special edition of his "Book of Lies", containing even more 
contradictions, riddles and falsehoods than the original. It was 
made in only one copy. On the outside, it looks almost like the 
original. It is autographed by the author, having "I hope you will 
enjoy my lies, (readers name). A. Crowley" hand-written on the 
front page.

The joke is that the book will transform the perceptions of the 
reader slightly when read. This transformation will make changes 
like paradox, but often very subtle. The whole world will be filled 
with strange lies and contradictions. The victims friends will 
contradict themselves and never admit they are wrong. The facts in 
books and papers are not quite right. Calculations will almost 
always end up completely wrong. Passwords and codes the victim 
remembers clearly will not work. The effect wear of after some 
time, depending on how much the victim read. A causal glance may 
lead to some misremembered numbers. A person who read the 
whole book from cover to cover will be surrounded by lies for 
almost a week or even more. 

It is said that the book is not only a joke, but also a test. If the 
victim manages to see through the lies of ordinary life, he might 
gain tremendous insights. But these may also be lies. Some mages 
claim it is a tool for the Seeking, and may give clues to the true 
nature of ones Avatar. But it may also lie about it, sending the mage 
on a wild goose chase.


The Axe of Paracelsius
----------------------
This axe have a long and eventful history. Originally it was the 
executioners axe at the Bloodbath of Stockholm 1520. King Kristian 
II ordered about 100 nobles executed.  Paracelsius bought the axe, 
since he believed that an object which had killed that many noble 
lives must contain much power, especially in curing diseases. He 
used rust from it in his elixirs. When he was killed in a barroom 
brawl, the axe briefly became property of an innkeeper, until a 
wandering Alchemist bought it from him.

Since then it has been the property of Alchemists, Progenitors, 
mundane killers, the police, Order of Hermes and so on. It is a quite 
sought after antique, and many mages would dearly have it on the 
wall or as a foci. There are many rumours about its power, ranging 
from that it is a potent tool for healing to that it is cursed and every 
owner will be murdered, or commit murder himself. Most probably, it does
not have any magickal powers.


Daedalus Molecular Gyro Crystals
--------------------------------
These crystals are the work of a Technomancer or Son of Ether (or 
maybe a whole team) going under the pseudonym Daedalus. The 
crystals look (and are in fact) normal crystals of norborane-7-one, 
about five centimetres long. What is unusual about them is the fact 
that they behave like gyros, without rotating themselves. They will 
remain pointing in a certain direction regardless of where they are, 
and when subjected to outside forces they will begin to precess 
until they are removed. The crystals are extremely strong, and the 
only way to turn a gyro crystal is to use Correspondence or 
extremely powerful Forces magick. 

The gyro crystals are a cruel joke at Technomancer science. In fact, 
they are completely allowed by it! The Technocracy would like to 
forbid them with their science, but can't, since they are entirely 
based on the assumptions of it. Every molecule of norborane spins 
in the crystal lattice. But since normally about half of them rotate 
clockwise and half counterclockwise, there is no net effect. But 
Daedalus have cooled them down to an extremely low temperature 
(where they are not spinning much) and heated them using higher 
and higher frequencies of clockwise polarised circular microwaves. 
When they heat up, the molecules begins to spin in the same 
direction and when room temperature is reached, they will all spin 
quickly in the same way, turning normal norborane into gyro 
crystals.

The crystals have many fun uses. Put inside parcels, they will 
create endless problem for the Post Office and New World Order. 
Euthanatos have found that they contain extremely little entropy, 
which can be transferred in many fun ways. When melted or solved 
in water, the resulting liquid will also spin (often with catastrophic 
results, as the energy released into spinning is quite enormous. Do 
not do this at home, boys and girls!). 

Daedalus distributes these crystals as presents or as practical jokes 
on the Technomancers. He is also behind many other weird schemes 
and devices, many which uses technomancer science in ways even 
the Sons of Ether regard as weird. Sheep food which colour the fur 
into tiger patterns. Machines which send messages or explosions 
through the air using vortices, making the sound seem to come 
from above (much fun, these). Knotted magnetic fields (will make 
anybody with Forces 1 very confused). Nastyglass, which make 
everything seen through it have the leering, sickly quality of severe 
"morning after" light (it will induce headaches quickly). As 
expected, the Technocracy would dearly like to find out who 
Daedalus is.


The Ball of Flies
-----------------
The ball is a small crystal ball, about 10 centimetres across. Inside 
it, there are lots of living flies. What is unusual is that they never 
die, just keep on flying, creeping and buzzing. The ball is at least 
100 years old, and no fly has ever died or been born. Anybody with 
Life can tell that they are real, living, nonmagickal flies. The ball 
seems to lack any other magickal effects.

Some mages claim it could be used as a means for divination. By 
studying the patterns of flies, information can be revealed. 
Probably this information is mainly of entropic nature.


The Snail 
---------
This is a snail, seemingly made out of black, iridescent stone. But it 
slowly moves, too slow for the human eye. It can take it days to 
cross a table, and reputedly it once spent a year moving from room 
to room in a house. If it is turned, it will slowly turn around and 
continue the same way. It seems to seek for something, or perhaps 
try to reach a certain place.

According to Arenamontanus, an earlier owner of it, the snail is 
alive, in an alien way. It may be an ordinary lifeform from a realm 
somewhere. He points out that it seems quite unintelligent, but 
extremely stubborn. He also mentions, quite cryptically, that he 
believes that it would not be a good idea to let it reach its 
destination.


