The Crystal Palace
------------------

This is a *very* weird realm which was created during a very late 
game session (about 3-4 in the morning). It is definitely not a 
standard realm, and may cause interesting problems for the players 
if they find it.
------------------------------------------------------------------

I looked around the corner. A group of five Emmas and two Franzes 
were busy arguing about whether "...the diamond locked 
quintessence fields could be forced to realign when subjected to 
shock waves of quasi physical nature...". Damn hermetics! Of course, 
Franzes were not hermetics, but they behaved as if they were. I 
leaned carefully back against the perfect wall of diamond. Across 
the tunnel I saw my mirror image go around the corner to argue 
with the hermetics. I lit a cigarette and watched as the smoke 
smoothly turned into diamond dust in the air.

Suddenly I heard a commotion around the corner. Someone 
soothingly said "You have no possibilities! This is for your own 
best!". I quickly ran into the sidetunnel, making the finger to 
another one of myself who were running a few steps behind me. He 
responded the same way. At least there were two of me.

About a half dozen of Salvatores had appeared, and were busy 
killing the by now ten Franzes. I saw how one of them expertly cut 
the throat of another Franz, while he advanced towards the 
cornered Emmas. Damn! I held up Wands 8, Swiftness, against the 
ceiling, and looked away when a metre long spear of diamond fell 
down and impaled the Salvatore. Suddenly I saw a movement in 
the corner of my eye. Before I had even a chance to turn, my throat 
was almost painlessly slashed open. The last thing I heard, before I 
died and began to turn into crystals was the friendly: "See? I cured 
your smoking!".


History and explanation:
------------------------
The Crystal Realm was created unintentionally. The brilliant and 
overconfident mage Emma von Kellstahl believed she had devised a 
useful and elegant way of removing paradox: she created a material 
pattern, and channelled paradox instead of quintessence into it, 
thereby (according to her theory) creating an object which could be 
safely disposed of. No more problems with paradox. She was quite 
wrong. When the pattern was created, the rote channelled prime as 
usual into it, and at the same time she let out her paradox. It 
accumulated into the object, but turned it effectively into a sort of 
paradox spirit. After a first, partially successful experiment (she 
survived the paradox spirit anyway) she tried to remove all of her 
paradox. She used a powerful artefact inside a node, and channelled 
all of her paradox into a diamond pattern in the Deep Umbra. 

The result was spectacular. The combination of some quintessence 
of the node (which had accidentally been sent too) and the artefact 
(an idol of unknown origin, which seems to catalyse powerful and 
dangerous magickal effects) influenced the pattern. The pattern 
began to evolve. Instead of becoming a single, perfect crystal of 
diamond filled with paradox, it exploded into shards. Every shard 
began to absorb free quintessence from the environment, turning it 
into more diamond. The effect was somewhat like when a piece of 
ice is added to supercooled water: an explosion of crystallisation 
spreading outwards. Quickly, the diamond structure began 
replicating, growing larger and larger. And it began to grow 
towards Emma, who didn't suspect anything.

A month after the original experiment, Emma began to worry. 
Strange portents told her that something was quite wrong. The 
snowflakes which fell on her was not hexagonal, but rhomboidal. 
When left to themselves, chesspieces began to reorganise 
themselves into a crystalline pattern. When drawing a tarot card, 
she got 6 wands (which in the Crowley deck depicts a crystal, with 
arrows of lightening pointing outwards). Finally, another member of 
the cabal took a look on her in the Umbra. He saw a crown of 
crystalline reflections above her head, and looking outwards he saw 
*something big*, growing towards her. A whole realm of titanic 
diamond crystals, growing straight towards Emma like a heat-
seeking missile. 

They decided to try to stop it inside the deep umbra. Using some 
help from a hermetic order, they managed to use their node to ram 
a hole in the Horizon. Following the path of prime they had used, 
the began to journey towards the new realm. An enormous mass of 
brilliant diamonds glittered in the far distance, and when they got 
nearer they saw a enormous blade of diamond crystallising towards 
them, like a express train locked on its course towards Emma. They 
jumped of their path, trying to escape the crystal. 

They were not completely successful, and was trapped inside a 
space inside the crystal realm, surrounded by labyrinths of 
sparkling diamond. Their quintessence began to drain and turn into 
diamond. Sharp spikes of diamond shot out of their clothes, and 
sheets of diamond tried to encapsulate them. Fortunately, they had 
spent most of their quintessence earlier, and managed to free 
themselves. 

They began to wander towards the centre of the realm, following 
the tunnel they found themselves in. Then Franz, while trying to 
understand the nature of the crystals, suffered paradox backlash. 
At first nothing seemed to happen. Then Lizzy noticed that her 
mirror images did not move in the same ways she did. Neither did 
the images of anybody else. The mirror images behaved in about 
the same way as the originals did, bickering and discussing. Franz 
soon found out that he could even read their minds, and they were 
thinking about the same things as the originals did. 

As they moved on, they suddenly noticed there were two Emma 
walking through the tunnel. Both persons quickly realised that 
neither knew which was original and copy. Soon there was several 
large groups of copies of each of the five persons, each handling the 
situation in different ways. The Emmas had quickly formed several 
teams to discuss the situation and ways to make use of it. 
Salvatores and Lizzys tried to ignore themselves. Jahns stood in the 
corners, smoking and sometimes harassing the others. Franzes 
began to experiment using Mind to communicate between 
himselves.

According to one theory proposed by an Emma, the phenomenon 
was caused by some unknown interference effect between the 
original paradox, Franz paradox and the crystalline lattices of prime 
around them. As the people move on towards the centre, the 
travellers became more and more numerous as the primal fields 
began to increase. Several of Salvatore suddenly realised that their 
copies had exactly the same possibilities or fewer than they had 
themselves, and thus were filling up room for other possibilities, 
and therefore should be given the Good Death. Quickly half of 
Salvatore killed the other half. After that almost everybody began 
to avoid them.

When they reached the centre, the by now quite disturbed people 
tried to find a way to undermine the realm. Inside the walls of the 
central chamber were the original, paradox laced crystals 
embedded. Emmas tried to destroy them, which only led to a cave 
in, which killed many of the present people. Salvatore pointed out 
the fundamental problem with the realm, its total lack of entropy. 
Together Emmas, Jahns and Salvatores began to create a spreading 
pattern of entropy, hoping to counteract the spreading pattern of 
order. The result was complete chaos, as parts of the realm caved 
in, crystal shards rained down and many Salvatores used the 
moment to backstab many Jahns, Lizzys, Emmas and Franzes. A 
confused fight began, between everybody, while others fled 
outwards. 

The end result was the realm as it is now. Inside the gigantic 
labyrinth of diamond, groups of almost identical people study, 
ignore, fight and help each other. Instead of an ecology based on 
diversity as on Earth, the realm is based on endless repetition of 
existing patterns, with small variations. The inhabitants have partly 
created this realm, partly been formed by it. The most important 
thing about it is reflection: everything happens again and again, in 
infinite permutations, like the reflections inside a diamond. There is 
no past or future, as everything that happens will repeat itself and 
have already happened somewhere else. There is no real space, as 
every event will happen again and again in new places. Everything 
mirrors everything else, in infinite permutations.


Physical Description:
---------------------
The Diamond Realm consists almost completely of perfect, 100% 
pure diamond with a somewhat unusual crystal symmetry. Titanic 
crystals, several miles long, create the backbone of a complex lattice 
of diamond. Inside the mostly compact mass of diamond, there are 
interstices and tunnels left empty when the quintessence needed to 
build the world was used up. Infinitely long halls, with walls, floor 
and ceiling made of perfect diamond interconnect into a labyrinth 
inside the realm. Mostly they lead towards the centre, where the 
realm was created. The central chamber is a great cupola, where 
many of the tunnels connect. In the walls there are still shards of 
the original crystals embedded.

Everything is made out of diamond, reflecting and refracting 
everything into its facets. The illumination consists of brilliant 
reflections, often split into spectras of unearthly beauty. While the 
realm is extraordinarily beautiful, it is also terribly dangerous to 
the careless. The edges of the diamonds are razor sharp, and long, 
sharp spears of diamond can easily impale or slash open a runner. 
Loud sounds can make the ceiling come crashing down, or make 
sharp stalactites come loose, impaling anybody under. 

There are some structures which resemble plants: groups of 
crystals arranged into rosette patterns, or forests of exactly similar 
diamonds. And there is the rare icosidodecahedrons, perfect 
polyhedrons of diamond found lying around. The roll quite easily, 
and sometimes seems almost like they were alive. Whether they 
really are alive is an unending source of debate among Emmas and 
Lizzys. 

From the outside, the whole realm look like a enormous cluster of 
diamonds, and their brilliant reflections can be seen from a great 
"distance". Several drained ley-lines lead into it, and where they 
once was now impossibly large crystals point outwards. The whole 
realm look a bit like a beautiful, impossible gem suspended in the 
Deep Umbra. Around it there is a region where most quintessence 
have been drained, making it impossible to grow further. Here the 
remains of several small realms can be found, which have been 
drained and partially turned into diamonds.

The diamonds of the realm have some unusual properties. When in 
contact with quintessence, they absorb it and grow (especially in 
the direction towards the nearest Emma). If an outsider appears in 
the realm, it will begin to drain his quintessence (If he has prime, 
he can use countermagick against a target number of 5 to resist this 
for a turn). Dead things, like a pencil or a corpse, will slowly be 
drained of their quintessence and reform into crystals. The speed at 
which this process happens depends upon the amount of entropy 
nearby, which inhibit it somewhat. This draining is not active 
against living beings, which constantly renew their supply of prime, 
and their carried things which seems to be protected by their 
nearness.

When something is turned into crystal, it will reform into a cluster 
of diamond of about the same size. This cluster will slowly, over the 
course of a few hours merge together to a single diamond. Some of 
these intermediate stages can be found lying around after a fight, 
the only clue to the victims. Sometimes a person is encapsulated in 
diamond, or trapped under a rockfall. When he or she has 
suffocated, they will slowly become more and more transparent, 
until they have been completely transformed into the surrounding 
diamond.

Normally, the realm is highly anti-entropic. A ray of light reflecting 
between crystals will do so forever (This may be the source of light 
in the realm, as trapped light is reflected over and over again, 
sometimes becoming copied.). A bullet will tend to ricochet forever, 
and may become copied. This can create tunnels filled with 
ricochets, slowly turning into razor sharp diamonds. 

The crystals have perfect facets, which mirror and refract 
everything. Inside them, the viewer can see other people, Emmas 
studying, groups of Jahns and Lizzys arguing, himself getting 
attacked by Salvatores etc. The mirrorimages can in fact be 
contacted with mind, and behave exactly as the originals would do 
in their situation. Sometimes mirrorimages contact the onlooker. 
Sometimes the images show what happened a few minutes ago, 
sometimes what will happen. There is no way to distinguish the 
events inside a "mirror world" from the outside world. In fact, they 
seem completely interchangeable. 

The duplication of people is the most unusual feature of the realm. 
Suddenly, there are two or more of a person, or a group of persons. 
They do not appear out of thin air, or from the walls. Instead they 
just are there when someone happens to look. It is impossible to 
tell who was the original and who was the copy, as they all have 
exactly the same memories, attitudes and physical form. This is also 
true, to a lesser extent for material objects (which will turn into 
diamond faster than they are copied unless carried).

Sometimes the copy is not perfect, and differ slightly from the 
original. This does still not give anybody the chance to distinguish 
them, as the difference is too small to notice, and even when the 
two persons compare their personalities, memories and ideas they 
will not be able to find out which was original since both versions 
are equally possible. Notice that due to the low entropy, the 
different versions of the archetypes do not diverge that far from 
each other, as they would in a more entropic realm like Earth. 

There is also another, unknown factor. Sometimes there are strange 
shifts in the refractions inside the diamond, almost like a reflection 
of something else. They are never there when anybody looks again. 
Franzes claim they have noticed traces of a presence of a mind not 
belonging to the normal inhabitants, something perhaps not even 
human. And Emmas have noted small fluctuations in the pattern of 
light. All these phenomena seems to be related, but there are no 
clues to what causes them.


The Magickal Axioms:
--------------------
The realm have been shaped by the original paradox of Emma 
(creating the realm in the first place), Franz mental paradox 
(creating the mirrorimages) and the partially successful entropy 
spell (which creates the fluctuations between prime and entropy). 
As a whole, the realm have a quite stringent reality in some 
aspects, but a rather loose reality in others. The different spheres 
are:

Correspondence:	0
(This works as normal. Since almost all places are very similar, and 
populated with similar persons, the effects of correspondence is 
almost as easily duplicated by walking.)

Entropy:			-1 - 1
(In the realms original state, entropy was highly suppressed. When 
shattering a piece of diamond, the shards were split along straight 
lines and fell in a geometrical pattern. Dices always fell the same 
way, and so on. By the introduction of more entropy, this axiom 
changes. When it is as high as 1, it is quite easy to find weak spots, 
to backstab people and structures and generally destroy anything. 
Most of the time it is quite low, even when it is ascendant.)

Forces:		0
(This works as normal. There are no higher forces like radioactivity 
in this realm. Light, gravity and kinetic energy are the only normal 
forces.)

Life:		0
(This works as normal.)

Matter:		2
(The creation of new diamond is a quite natural process, and 
Emmas have found out how to simply will diamond into existence 
when the Prime is high enough. To change the parameters of 
diamond (changing its colour, strength and so on) is also quite 
simple for a mage. To create anything else is harder, and may give 
paradox. Soft, fuzzy objects are quite impossible. Remember that 
matter, when left alone, will begin to turn into diamond crystals.)

Mind:		0
(This works as normal)

Spirit:		-3
(No spirits exist in this realm, since they would become absorbed 
by the crystals. This makes spirits very careful not to enter it. It is 
impossible to look in or out using Spirit, since the diamonds block 
the view.)

Prime:		0-2
(In the original realm, prime axiom is 2. It is quite easy to notice 
flows of prime, as they will begin to form crystals or become 
trapped inside crystals. Anybody using pattern magick will be 
briefly surrounded by the suggestion of reflecting facets in the air. 
To channel Prime into something is quite simple, as the realm 
eagerly absorbs Prime. The hard part is to get it out again. When 
Entropy is ascendant, the Prime axiom is lowered towards 1 or 
even 0)

Time:		0
(There is no true passage of time in the realm, as there is only and 
eternal now, without any long term changes.)


The entropy-prime cycle:
------------------------
Due to the introduction of entropy, the realm suffers from changes. 
These are periodic in nature, and lasts a short while (ranging from a 
couple of minutes to several hours). When prime is ascendant, it is 
easy to create new patterns. It is during this time most of the 
mirrorimages emerge, as there is enough quintessence around to 
create them. When there is too many people around, the descent 
into entropy immediately begins. Usually Salvatores begins to "give 
room for possibilities", which leads to quick and dirty fights 
between them and unwilling victims. Entropy gains power, as Jahns 
begins to use entropic magick, Emmas and Franzes tries to flee, 
mages suffers paradox backlashes and general mayhem ensues. 
When entropy is ascendant, old structures are destroyed and their 
quintessence is freed. Usually this will create more crystals and 
mirrorimages, making Prime ascendant yet again. This cycle 
continues, in large and small oscillations throughout the realm.

It is not known if the changes are local to a small part, or global, 
influencing the whole realm. According to one proposed theory, the 
total amount of quintessence is constant, as there is no net influx. 
The same is true about entropy in the realm. (In game terms, the 
Entropy Axiom + Prime Axiom = 1). Some teams of Emmas have 
tried to influence the cycles, with mixed success.


Paradox:
--------
Forces, Matter and Prime paradox will almost always lead to the 
creation of more diamond, or the disruption of diamonds. Many 
Emmas have been crushed or encapsulated by crystals when trying 
to work magick. 

Entropy will lead to short term fluxes in the entropy/prime 
balance, often pushing it towards one extreme. Sometimes sharp 
stalactites coincidentally falls from the ceiling, impaling the mage. 
(This effect is also often used by Jahn)

Mind can lead to the usual problems. One possibility is the 
dissolution of the mages identity, as he loses his grip on who he is 
and begins to think of himself as a Archetype, not as an individual. 
This is especially true about Franzes, who tends to go around in 
large groups communicating with Mind 3.


The Inhabitants:
----------------
There were five members of the cabal who first entered the realm, 
thereby creating all the rest. These are the five archetypes. Every 
archetype has diverged slightly by now, as the mirroring is not 
always perfect (especially when entropy is ascendant). This 
divergence can be quite fast, and lead to new sub-varieties of the 
archetype. These varieties differ slightly from the personality, 
outlook and behaviour of the mainstream. 

Mirror images are created all the time, replacing dead or departed 
persons (when someone leaves a place, one or two mirrorimages 
often stay behind). When prime is ascendant, the available room is 
quickly filled with people. Shortly after entropy have been 
maximally ascendant, it is possible to find completely empty 
tunnels and chambers.

If someone enters this realm, he or she will immediately create a 
new archetype, changing the politics of the realm totally. This may 
turn out to be a good thing, or a very bad move. 

Generally, Emmas and Franzes organise themselves into large 
teams, while Jahns and Salvatore tend to be solitary and mistrust 
themselves. Lizzys sometimes group together, sometimes stay 
solitary. 


The Five Archetypes:
--------------------

Salvatore De Gennaro
--------------------
Salvatore believes in possibilities. He does his best to give 
everybody a chance to fulfil their possibilities. Unfortunately, most 
of the inhabitants in the realm are simply copies, which have 
exactly the same possibilities. They take up the space and 
possibilities for each other, and hinder their own evolution. Thus 
most of them should be removed, to give more room for the others. 
This is true for everybody, but he mostly keeps an eye on Jahns 
and other Salvatores. Since Salvatores generally think quite alike, 
they always mistrust each other, to avoid being ambushed.

Normally, Salvatore behaves very coolly, always wearing his 
intimidating sunglasses and pinstripe suit (he would make a great 
member of the Men in Black). He does not say much, and stand in 
the background, studying the others present. When he feels 
someone have to few possibilities, or is blocking others possibilities, 
he springs into action. He swiftly and efficiently kills his victims 
with a almost inhuman precision. He sincerely feels he is doing 
them a great service, and cant understand why everybody else is 
horrified.

Salvatores are the predators of the realm, constantly seeking out 
and killing anybody they consider expendable to free much needed 
entropy. When prime is ascendant, they is often forced to stay in 
groups due to lack of space. This is a highly unstable state which 
can erupt at any moment. Suddenly everybody turns on their 
neighbours to make space, efficiently killing them. As long as prime 
is strong, they use the stiletto, but when entropy is above 0 they 
can also use the gun.

However, not all Salvatores kill anybody indiscriminately. Many of 
them are quite nice people, helping others and generally behaving 
normally. This of course will make others even more confused.

Euthanatos
Essence:	Questing
Nature:		Judge
Demeanour:	Caregiver
Concept:	Mafia Assassin

Quote:
Lizzy:		"You're a sociopath!"
Salvatore:	"What's that?"
Lizzy:		"Look it up."
Salvatore (after reading the definition in encyclopaedia): 
		"Yes. It fits quite well."

Gear:
	Very sharp stiletto (a talisman. Contains a coincidental Life 
effect giving two dices extra damage (which is multiplied by 3). Is 
also quite painless. This effect will only work when prime is less 
than 1 (otherwise the quintessence is too low))
	Beretta M92 (only works when entropy is above 0)
	Pinstripe suit
	Sunglasses

Str	3		Cha	3	Per	3
Dex (steady) 5		Man	1	Int 	2
Sta	3		App	2	Wit	3

Alertness 2, Awareness 2, Brawl 2, Intuition 3, Intimidation 3, 
Streetwise 3, Drive 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms (pistols) 4, Melee 
(knives) 4, Stealth 3, Technology 2, Cosmology 2, Culture 2, 
Investigation 3, Law 1, Linguistics 1

Entropy 2 (foci: Two dices made of human bone)
Forces	1 (Foci: Weapon)
Life	2 (Foci: None)
Spirit	2 (Foci: Dance)

Allies 1, Arcane 1, Avatar 1, Node 1, Talisman 2

Arete 2
Willpower:7


Emma von Kellstahl
------------------
The creator of the realm, and still very interested in its physics. She 
is highly individualistic and organised, often working in teams were 
everybody is trying to impress everybody else with brilliant ideas 
and powerful magick. These teams work quite well together, and 
experiment with Matter and Prime magick. Since she generally 
ignore the consequences of her actions, it is not unusual for these 
teams to be destroyed by paradox or cave ins. 

Emma have style. She is always impeccably dressed and well 
organised. Her magick is often dramatic and impressive ("when you 
are doing vulgar magick anyway, why not liven it up a bit with 
Forces?") She is also the currently only mage controlling Matter in 
the realm, thus making her quite powerful. She produces much 
diamond in her experiments, and when prime is ascendant she can 
even do it without magick (some Emmas use this to protect 
themselves, by turning the air between themselves and an attacker 
into diamond).

Quote:	
"Hermetics are not Technomancers. Hermetics are Better."

Order of Hermes (Rosicrucian)
Essence: 	Pattern
Nature: 	Architect
Demeanour: 	Director
Concept: 	Efficient business woman

Gear:		Elegant Armani dress.
		Handbag containing all sorts of things.
		Pentacle of wood.

Str	1		Cha	2		Per	2
Dex (catlike) 4		Man	3		Int	4
Sta	1		App (captivating) 5	Wits	2

Awareness 2, Expression 2, Intuition 3, Subterfuge 2, Drive 1, 
Etiquette 3, Leadership 1, Research 1, Computer 1, Culture 3, 
Investigation 2, Law 3, Linguistics 2, Occult 2.

Forces	3 (Pentacle)
Matter	3 
Prime	2 (Pentacle)
Uses Egyptian/Latin incantations for all magick.

Arete:		4
Willpower: 	5
Paradox:	2

Avatar: 	2
Influence:	2
Library:	2
Node:		1


Franz-Josef Durch-Holtz
-----------------------
Franz is a private eye, and outside the realm tend to return to the 
stereotypical gumshoe. However, inside the realm he is quite out of 
his normal element, and except for his trenchcoat and his odd 
references to camera angles, lightning, clipping and the budget, he 
behaves more like an apprentice hermetic.

Franz is curious, and is almost as interested in the realm as Emma, 
but he also experiments with himselves. He often uses Mind to 
communicate, multitask or create mind links with several of 
himselves. This has led to that many Franzes have become much 
more of group entities than individuals. Originally a Orphan, he 
have been heavily influenced with hermetic thought, and often uses 
hermetic terms he "borrows", using Mind on Emmas.

Franz is very impressed by Emmas hermetic magick. He often helps 
Emmas in their research, and tries to learn from them. He 
sometimes talks with Jahns, who he regard as a bit too irritating 
but generally interesting. He tries to avoid Salvatores, after seeing 
what he does when he think there are to few possibilities available 
for anybody. Lizzy is quite reasonable, and often help him. He 
never use offensive magick or his gun, preferring to run if attacked.

Quote (to himself): "Care about some chess? Yes, it would be nice. 
Queens pawn to..."

Orphan with Hermetic tendencies
Essence:	Questing
Nature:		Survivor
Demeanour: 	Visionary
Concept: 	Private Eye

Str:	2	Cha:	3	Per:	4
Dex: 	2	Man:	3	Int:	2
Sta:	2	App:	2	Wit:	4

Alertness 3, Awareness 3, Brawl 1, Dodge 1, Expression 1, Intuition 
2, Streetwise 4, Drive 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms 2, Research 2, 
Research 1, Stealth 3, Technology 1, Investigation 3, Law 1, 
Linguistics 1

Entropy 1, Forces 2, Mind 3, Prime 1 (uses chessboard as foci for 
Prime)

Arete:	 	4
Willpower: 	10
Paradox :	4

Node    1
Influence 1
Arcane 1
Avatar 4

Gear:
Travel chess board	A small chessboard, which he uses to study 
prime or play with himself (most of the time he plays chess purely 
mentally with subpersonalities)
Pistol 
Trenchcoat
Icosidodecahedron
Some pieces of diamond.


Lizzy (Elizabeth Feigenbaum)
----------------------------
A young girl (tries to look older with Life), dressed like a punk. 
Wears a shrunken, dried, dead rat, impaled on a needle, on her 
chest. Often quite soft hearted, but with a hard edge. Tries to help 
everybody and avoid conflicts. She is the mediator of the realm. When
she is attacked, she often flees, but when cornered, she fights like 
a cornered rat. Then she will use very nasty Life 4 attacks on anybody 
(and feel bad about it afterwards). She fears Salvatore, but sometimes
acts like him (often without noticing it until afterwards). Have both 
religious and moral doubts about what she is doing, but does it anyway. 

Lizzy is quite irritated about Emmas paradox creating experiments, 
and hold her responsible for the whole trouble. The same is true 
about Franz, who she also suspect is behind much of the problems. 
Jahn is too impolite and should learn some manners. 

Quote: "I feel bad about everybody I kill. Both the good ones and 
bad ones."

Ex Hollow One, now Euthanatos
Essence:	Dynamic
Nature:		Caregiver
Demeanour:	Caregiver (a bit warped sometimes, like Salvatore)
Concept:	Outsider.

Str:	1		Cha:	3		Per (keen eyed):4
Dex (catlike) 5		Man:	1		Int:	3
Sta:	2		App (cute):4		Wit:	3

Alertness 3, Athletics 1, Awareness 2m Expression 1, Intuition 3, 
Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 1, Etiquette 1, Firearms 1, Meditation 1, 
Melee 2, Stealth 3, Survival 1, Technology 1, Cosmology 1, 
Culture 1, Enigmas 1, Medicine 3, Occult 1

Life 4 (foci: dried rat)
Mind 2
Spirit 1

Arete:		4
Willpower: 	5
Paradox:	2

Avatar 	5
Arcane 	5
Dream 	3
Mentor 	1

Gear:
	Stiletto
	Skull earring and other morbid jewellery
	Black Leather clothes
	Lockpicks


Jahn Creutz
------------
Jahn is solitary and dislike almost everything, for good reasons. He 
prefers to stand in corners smoking, sometimes heckling the others 
and generally avoid most of the action (think of him as John 
Constantine in a bad mood). But when he sees something he don't 
like, like Salvatores attacking somebody else, he often interferes. He 
absolutely hates misuse of magick in any form.

Jahn dislikes Emma for what she has caused, and regard her as a 
perfect example of the hermetic tendency to play with forces far 
beyond her understanding. Franz is at least somewhat more 
reasonable, but too influenced by Emma. Salvatore is purely 
disgusting, and a perfect example of why euthanatos should be 
stopped. Lizzy is his personal problem. Earlier, she was the most 
reasonable mage in the cabal, understanding the importance of 
avoiding misuse of magick. But now she has been seduced by 
euthanatos, and have begun thinking like them. He doesn't know 
what to do with her.

He agrees with Salvatore that the realm needs more entropy, and 
does his best to spread it when he feels for it, channelling it into the 
walls, flawing the facets, cracking the floor and generally 
destroying the diamonds. He often uses this to clear out areas of the 
realm, and turn them into tunnels where he can be alone (or rather, 
where Jahns can be alone)

Quote: "Well, Well, what have you done now, Fraulein Emma? 
Played with Secrets Man Was Never Meant To Know, again? Or just 
let loose something Unspeakable from God knows where?"

Trenchcoater
Essence:	Dynamic
Nature:		Loner
Demeanour:	Jester
Concept:	John Constantine Wannabe

Str:	2	Cha:	2	Per:	3
Dex: 	2	Man:	5	Int:	3
Sta:	2	App:	2	Wit:	5

Alertness 2, Awareness 2, Dodge 2, Intuition 5, Intimidation 1, 
Streetwise 3, Subterfuge 4, Drive 1, melee 1, Research 1, Stealth 2, 
Cosmology 1, Enigmas 1, Linguistic 1, Medicine 1, Occult 5, 
Science 1.

Entropy 3, Mind 4, Spirit 3.

Arete:5
Willpower:8
Arcane 3
Avatar 2

Gear:
Tarot pack	A tarot pack, which he uses as foci. He holds up a 
		card suited to the magickal effect, and it happens. 
Cigarettes	Jahn always have a cigarette in the corner of his 
		mouth, puffing smoke at the others and the crystals 
		(where it turns into diamond).
Dirty Trench coat


Mood
------
The mood of this realm is best compared with a diamond: 
mirroring, hard with a hint of cruelty and very beautiful. 
Everything that happens is mirrored and repeated, like the 
reflections inside a diamond. Everything is frozen into the diamond, 
but seems to move, like the images inside a gem when it is rotated. 

The inhabitants are quite normal mages who have become trapped 
in this realm, and lost every chance to leave. They are now the 
realms ecosystem, endlessly repeating their actions in new scenes. 
Some of them have adapted, while others tries to resist the realm to 
some degree.

There is no end. Nothing will ever change, and nobody can ever 
leave (or rather, nobody actually does it. Think of "Waiting for 
Godot"). The inhabitants seem to not care about it, they just keep on 
doing their things. 

There is a hint of alienness inside the realm, of something 
nonhuman. Maybe the whole realm is a kind of organism, or it is 
inhabited by something else besides humans. Something maybe 
uses the inhabitants for its own inscrutable goals. 

Most important is the beauty and perfection of everything. 
Glittering diamonds. Galleries of crystal pillars. Perfect gems 
reflecting everything. Delicate structures growing from the floor. 
Titanic crystals pointing outwards towards the outside. The 
melodious sound of diamond against diamond. The strange and 
hauntingly lifelike icosidodecahedrons. But this beauty slowly turn 
cold, as the visitors realise that they are trapped here forever, even 
if they leave.
