Elementals

Elementals are the spirits of the physical world. Many people, 
includeing some mages believe that there are only four types of 
elementals, corresponding to the four classical elements. That is not 
true, all kinds of elements have their own elementals. This includes 
natural processes and places, and some mages even regard plants 
and animals as a special kind of elementals. The type of spirits 
Dreamspeakers and Verbena call nature spirits are according to 
Hermetic theory the elementals of places. Elementals are 
everywhere, but most people rarely see them and even more rarely 
realize what they have seen.

Elementals are the spiritual manifestations of their elements, the 
power that gives the elements power to change and act. Normally 
they reside in their element. They lack any individuality, and just 
exist as a potential inside the element. However, when their 
element is disturbed or some kind of magick summons them, they 
split of their element and become individual beings, able to interact 
with their surroundings and in some cases even act on their own. 

Elementals are more common than most mages expect. They hide in 
the drifting sheets of rain. They play around in the shapes of 
clouds. They appear as dust- or snow-devils, whirpools in a stream 
or as movement in the grass. Most such "natural" elementals are 
very short lived, and appear as independent entities just for a short 
time before returning to their element, having done their work. To 
become actually independent and individual, they need a mage (or 
suitable sleeper) to summon them, to regard them as a being and 
give them form by their belief. Such summoned elementals can in 
time become more and more advanced, and may become very 
independent of their element. Some have even permanently left it, 
and become independent umbroods. 

Another type of elemental is the elemental templates. By long 
tradition, many mages summon elementals in the same way, 
expecting the same form. This have created certain "standard 
elementals" which will appear again and again. They are really not 
an individual, they are just normal summoned elementals required 
to take on a certain form and characteristics. A typical example is 
the Elemental Kings which the hermetic mages often summon or at 
least invoke in their magick, and the classical Salamanders, 
Undines, Sylphs and Gnomes.

As said before, not all elementals belong to the four elements. 
There are trash elementals, forest elementals, cloud elementals, 
electricity elementals and paper elementals. Every piece of matter, 
force or life is inhabited by its elementals. Even the human body 
has its own elementals, protecting it, healing it or trying to create 
well-being. The Progenitors try to control them and call them 
Immune Cells, Organs or Reflexes, but they are really 
manifestations of the spiritual side of the body. They protect the 
body from the harmful spirits of disease and other spiritual threats 
to it. Sometimes their activity is manifested by a twitching of a 
muscle, weird sensations or a sudden feeling that a part of the body 
is doing something on its own.

Not all elementals are benign. Most elementals act like their 
elements, often damaging or interefering with other things. The 
elementals of the rain doesn't care what they wet, and the 
elementals of fire happily burn anything combustible they can get 
their flames on. In fact, many of the more dynamic elementals are 
actively trying to spread their element in any way they can. This 
can range from the paper clippings the paper elementals spread 
everywhere to the great fires and volcanic eruptions the fire 
elementals celebrate.

One important thing about elementals is that they are already 
inside the Gauntlet. They are parts of the physical world, and 
cannot leave it (and seldom have any whish to do so either). This 
makes them easier to summon than most umbrood, since they are 
already here. But in areas where the Gauntlet is strong, the spiritual 
side of nature is supressed. In such areas elementals have much 
harder to form, and tend to remain inside their elements. Natural 
processes become much more reliable, living beings become more 
standardized and materials behave according to theory. However, 
not all types of elementals are affected the same, and it would be 
unwise to rely on such generalities. Certain elementals, like 
radioactivity elementals or information elementals actually thrive 
in areas of a high Gauntlet. Summoning normal elementals forth 
here however, requires a great deal of expertice and patience. 

Elemental summonings are done differently by different traditions. 
Order of Hermes summon elementals using their circles and 
incantations, Celestial Chorus call them forth by the power of the 
One, Dreamspeakers arouse them from their sleep by drumming 
and Verbena attract them by the blood in the cauldron. However, 
the mathods all have the same basis. The mage arouses the 
elementals inside an element by some means, and then 
communicates with them or fuel their individual existences enough 
to let them manifest physically. 


