A BRIEF DISCUSSION ON ESSENCE
- by Sandor Sallai, Doctor of the Art, Convivio Holmiensis, Order of 
Hermes. Translated from Latin by Acolyte Konrad Sallai

In the year of the Lord 1995

There has been much discussion regarding the nature of the Avatar 
but seldom is the manifestation of the Avatar in the magus, the 
Essence, discussed among magi. Few have been willing to complete 
the paramount task of researching and comtemplating the words 
written by the Enlightened Masters in ancient times. I have 
completed this task under the guidance of the Angels of Patience 
and True Understanding, and the matter is now clear to me. It is 
often difficult to guess the Essence of a magus at first glance, since 
the Avatar influences the magus in subtile and symbolic ways (even 
misguiding ways), but always in a fashion that allows the magus to 
achieve Enlightenment, the prized Ascension. But the tradition of 
the magus influences the way the Avatar Enlightens the magus, 
therefore I will discuss the ways the different Essences manifest in 
the different traditions. The learned reader will notice that I have left 
out the Essence called Infinite, since (as noted by Doctor 
Hieronymus of Ingolstadt, Doctor Damianus of Cordoba and Master 
Claudius of Heidelberg) this Essence is only the unenlightened's 
misconception of the nature of the truly Enlightened Master's soul. 
The other Essences Ascend into this Essence and it is not possessed 
by the still seeking magus.

AKASHIC BROTHERHOOD
Unfortunately, my experiences of these Oriental magi are rather 
scarce so I am here relying on the words of Father Rickard Krok, 
Master of Prime of the Celestial Chorus. The Brothers of the 
Primordial Essence often share the characteristic of being introvert, 
forsaking the material illusions of this world, seeking the true 
"reality" of Nirvana. Primordial Brothers are most often found in 
monasteries in isolated places, practicing meditation. They seldom 
take interest in the illusion created by the desires of others. They 
often create new meditation techniques and forms of martial arts, 
since new forms of concentration for the mind can more easily open 
up new ways to defeat the illusion and enable the mind to see 
through old misconceptions. They Ascend by creating new ways to 
expose their material desires and then eliminate them one by one. 
The Brothers of the Pattern Essence are quite the opposite. They are 
often found among the people, trying to spread the message of 
leaving the material world behind and showing the populace by 
example how Nirvana can be achieved. By forsaking all their 
desires in order to benefit all others, they Ascend. The Brothers of 
the Dynamic Essence early choose a form of Do that they try to 
master at excellence, closing out all other things than Do. When 
complete immersion in their form of Do has been achieved they 
face their hardest task, to dispense of even Do,  to "kill the Buddha" 
as one of them frazed it. The Brothers of the Questing Essence are 
wanderers, travelling from place to place in the material world and 
even the Umbra as those worlds are just other aspects of the 
material world. They practice different forms of Do as fervently as 
the Dynamic Brothers practice one. 
Eventually they understand that every place they visit and 
everything they do in this material world is utterly pointless, and 
Ascend to a greater state of "not- being". It is obvious that the 
Brotherhood belongs to the Dianoia Mentem family of Avatars since 
they use the mind to close out everything but the Truth of 
Ascension.

CELESTIAL CHORUS
The Choristers are members of the Dianoia Moralis family of 
Avatars since they use a moral code in order to join the One. The 
Primordial Choristers seek to understand the inner nature of the 
One, why He has created the world in this way and His intentions 
for His fragments. Primordial Choristers are often found as heremits 
or in convents, trying to understand all aspects of the One and in the 
process they create new sets of belief or even new faiths in order to 
make their discoveries more apprehensible to others. By 
understanding all the varying aspects of the One and their higher 
purpose, they Ascend. The Pattern Choristers are involved in 
changing the whole of human society towards a society that 
understands that everything is a fragment of the One. This is done in 
many ways: through politics, through missionary work amongst the 
heathen in all parts of the world, and sometimes even through war. 
By mending the inperfect whole of the One in society in general, 
they also mend the inperfect parts and thus they Ascened.  Dynamic 
Choristers work on a much lower scale than the Pattern Choristers. 
They try to convert individuals, not entire societies. They often stay 
in a community in order to improve it, or concentrate on one aspect 
of the Chorister call such as praying, preaching, teaching or 
performing healing Magick. By mending a part, they mend the 
whole and thus Ascend. Questing Choristers are similar to the other 
Essences in practice. They also preach in a community, but just for 
a while. They too try to influence society as a whole, but just for a 
while, and they also delve into the mysteries of the One, but just for 
a while. In this searching they understand that all the other activities 
are parts of the One and that everything, on all planes, is but a part 
of the One and this understanding enables them to Ascend.

CULT OF ECSTACY
These wild magi of the Dianoia Aestaetica family of Avatars seek 
Ascension through sensual pleasure. The Primordial Cultist tries to 
create new experiences, new forms of pleasure, in order to discover 
the ultimate experience and thus Ascend. The Pattern Cultist is more 
active in society, he tries to create a more daring, a more ecstatic 
world, or as one of them put it "to make every day a party for 
everyone". By creating a world filled with pleasures and 
experiences he Ascends. The Dynamic Cultist concentrates on one 
single kind of pleasure or experience and tries to perfect it (the total 
inebriation, the perfect coitus). The Questing Cultist tries many 
experiences throughout his life, discovering that all experiences, all 
pleasures of life are alike and can be achieved through any activity. 
This enables him to see the joy in all of creation and Ascend.


DREAMSPEAKERS
The only contact between Convivio Holmiensis and this ancient 
shamanistic tradition took place in 1746 AD. The following is my 
interpretation of the discussion between Nikodemus von Geerling, 
Master of Forces of the Order of Hermes, and the Lapp shaman of 
the White Reindeer on the top of the Kebenkajse mountain, as 
recorded by Acolyte Frederik Ulv. The conclusions are certainly 
valid for the Lapp branch of this primitive tradition, but may be 
invalid for other branches. The Primordial Dreamspeaker tries to 
merge with the Great Spirit, the manifestation of everything in the 
world. These shamans are often heremits, living outside the 
community of the tribe,  seeking the complete understanding of 
nature through dreamquests to all Realms in existence. The Pattern 
shaman is often found in his traditional role as the counsellor of the 
tribe. As such, they see to the tribe's needs and act as mediators 
between the tribe and the spirits influencing each aspect of the 
tribe's life. If the shaman succeeds, the tribe lives in perfect harmony 
with the forces of nature and Ascends with the shaman. The 
Dynamic Dreamspeaker fills the role of the "witch-doctor", dealing 
with the practical problems of his tribe, as healing the diseased from 
evil spirits, performing the burial rites for the dead and pleasing the 
spirits before the migration of the reindeers. The Dynamic 
Dreamspeaker enables the parts of the tribe's life to merge with the 
wishes of the Great Spirit and thus Ascend. The Questing shaman is 
usually a wanderer. He often shares a bond with a totem, a spirit 
whose virtues the shaman tries to emulate. Guided by the totem, the 
Questing shaman brings messages from the spirits and acts as an 
example to many tribes and in his vast work he is ultimately able to 
understand the wishes of the Great Spirit and Ascends. There has 
been much debate upon the nature of the Dreamspeakers' Avatars. 
They have been refered to as members of the Dianoia Mentem 
family. This is a serious misconception, as they clearly belong to the 
Dianoia Moralis family since they use moral codes and traditions in 
order to merge with the Great Spirit.

EUTHANATOS
This bizarre death cult is member of the Dianoia Moralis family of 
Avatars, as they think of themselves as the cleansers of the world. 
The Euthanatos of the Primordial Essence are very strange. They 
seek to envision new possiblities, contemplating every occurrence 
or object in the world and how it is affected by entropy. They often 
practice yoga and other ardous bodily exercises in order to 
contemplate the fate of reality and when they reach the complete 
understanding of entropy and its meaning, they Ascend. Pattern 
Euthanatos are frightening indeed! As the Choristers of the same 
Essence, they try to affect the world in general. They destroy ideas, 
concepts, nations, entire cathegories of people that have lost their 
possibilities. By weeding out those things that do not deserve to 
exist in this world, everything else is able to Ascend. The Dynamic 
magi of this tradition work on a personal scale, they kill persons 
who do not deserve to live. In the process of murdering their victims 
the magus tries to give the ill fated a lesson to remember to his next 
life. 

An Euthanatos of Dynamic Essence in Vienna commented his role 
in the Realm as "I am just a gardener, removing the human weed so 
that the human flowers may blossom". The result of the grisly work 
of the Dynamic Euthanatos is that humans learn not to squander 
their lives and thus Ascend with the Euthanatos. The Questing 
Euthanatos is relying on his luck, pure coincidences, randomness 
and happenstance in order to Ascend. Following the tides of Fate, 
these Euthanatos may seem aimless, but their object is to 
understand randomness and Fate on an intuitional level. This 
growing intuitional understanding ultimately leads to an intuitional 
understanding of Ascension. Esteemed reader, I am fully aware that 
my description of the Ascension of the Questing Euthanatos may 
seem incomplete, but keep in mind that Euthanatos are indeed are 
very strange tradition. Particularly the Questing ones are impossible 
for us of the Order of Hermes to comprehend, since their "intuitional 
understanding" of reality is completly alien to our way of thinking.

ORDER OF HERMES
Our Order is of course member of the Dianoia Mentem family of 
Avatars, for obvious reasons. The Primordial magus is a researcher, 
but his research is not based on empiry but on deduction following 
the steps made by the ancient Masters. Since everything is already 
discovered and recorded, the Primordial magus can only 
"rediscover" facts, rituals, formulas and so on (eventhough these 
facts may have only been known to the most Illuminated Master 
previously). Through the process of rediscovery of the Hidden 
Knowledge the magus himself becomes an Illuminated Master.  The 
Pattern magus is the Keeper of the Hidden Truth that is The 
Creation. This means that he administers society and nature in order 
for it to conform with the meaning it has been given. The Pattern 
magus tries to, in secret, uphold Order in society. By protecting 
Order, the Keeper gradually understands the Hidden Truth of The 
Structure and thus becomes one of the Illuminated Masters. The 
Dynamic Hermetic sets a goal for himself, for instance that he 
should master a Sphere, a Ritual, or command all the Elements. This 
concentrated search allows him to delve into the Hidden Truth, 
because in order to really master something you must know 
everything about it. Dynamic magi are quite often loners, perferring 
not to be distracted from their research. The Questing Hermetic asks 
questions. He walks many Paths in life, and eventhough he may 
walk on the same Path for quite a while, he will ultimately change 
his route. The Questing magus tries to see through the traps that the 
Enlightened Masters have prepared for the not Illuminated magus to 
fall into. By constantly revealing those traps, the magus reaches 
understanding of the Enlightened Masters' teachings.

SONS OF ETHER
These Technomancers are members of the Res Creatio family of 
Avatars since they create new forms for reality. It is this dynamic 
quality that the Technocracy cannot tollerate. The Primordial Son of 
Ether tries to expand the world. With his will he creates new natural 
laws, new theories and new concepts that no one, other than he, had 
thought of earlier. 
By expanding the universe with concepts of his creation, he 
changes it into his image and thus reaches Ascension. The Pattern 
Son tries to unite different parts of reality into forming new 
concepts. He does not envision entirely new things, as the 
Primordial Son, but he uses the available threads to weave 
something new. By uniting all different aspects of reality, the Son 
Ascends. The Dynamic Etherite concentrates on one form of science 
and tries to create the ultimate theory that explains the subject 
completly and in so doing the Etherite discovers that the ultimate 
theory can be applied to other subjects as well. The Questing 
Etheric magus questions the works of others. He finds the faults in 
others' theories and tries to improve them, often with the same 
fervor as the Dynamic Son of Ether works on his subject. By 
constantly questioning and improving reality, the Questing Etheric 
magus ultimately perfects it and Ascends.

VERBENA
Tradition of Witches and Warlocks, the Verbena are part of the Res 
Mutatio family of Avatars, since their Magick works with the 
dynamic forces of nature. The Primordial Verbena tries to 
sympathize herself with the Great Mother, Nature. She tries to feel 
the reason of the Great Mother's changes and empathically feel Her 
cycles. By reaching a complete emotional bond with the Great 
Mother the Primordial Verbena Ascends. The Pattern Verbena 
weaves new forms of existence within the Mother. Their activity 
may be compaired with that of the woman who creates a new life 
inside her body, it is something that Nature could have achieved but 
the Verbena makes possible. Pattern Verbena Ascend by fully 
feeling the process of Nature's renewal. Do mind that this carnal 
phrasing is only a metaphor for a process that could be emotional, 
societal or symbolic. The Dynamic Verbena is commonly found in 
a community as a leader or in the role of the "wise old crone", the 
interpreter of prior experiences to the community. Through giving a 
community understanding of the Great Mother's ways the 
community can empathically link with Nature and Ascend. The 
Questing Verbena is the young maiden who is experiencing the 
various facets of life. When reviewing her feelings on what she has 
experienced, she feels the connection between her and the 
experiences shared by all women through history and feels her part 
in it.

VIRTUAL ADEPTS
These Technomancers are also members of the Res Creatio family. 
The Adepts are unique among the Traditions in the fact that they do 
not wish to Ascend the Realm, but a digital world of their creation. 
It is a tradition of rebels, created out of disappointment with the 
stagnant, static Magick embraced by the Technocracy. The Adepts 
are escapists, with a wish for truth, they create their own truth. 
Unfortuantely, in my opinion, this is just an alternate truth, not the 
Truth that the world needs. The digital world may well Ascend, but 
the world the Adepts leave behind will also need to Ascend, and 
without all parts Ascending the whole cannot Ascend. The 
Primordial Adept's fashination is to create visions of new digital 
worlds, and running models of them in order to determine what 
world has the greatest probability to Ascend. 
The Primordial Adept lacks interest in the "real" world, trying 
instead to create a better one. The Pattern Adept is more interested 
in the world outside the computer, but only in order to make our 
world more receptable for a transition to a digital society. When all 
humans have accepted to live in the computer realm, they will 
Ascend. The Dynamic Adepts concentrate on one aspect 
concerning their computer Magick, for instance programming, 
hardware design, or information gathering. They try to reach a so 
called omega- point in their work, when it cannot be further 
improved and thus reach Ascension. The Questing Adepts are the 
ultimate rebels, they may even rebel at times aginst their own 
tradition's way, but this rebellion only serves to crush the Adepts' 
faith in all worldly things so they return to creating their own 
reality. In their own reality they will not be disappointed, since they 
have complete control over it and thus Ascend.

ORPHANS, MARAUDERS AND NEPHANDI
These filthy beasts do not possess Avatars. They are just fools 
possessed by demons or other spirits. That allows them to perform 
lesser magic in order to fulfill the spirits' needs.

Thus endeth my tractate on the Essences as they manifest in the 
various traditions. I am currently researching the ways the Avatar 
manifests itself to the various members of the Technocracy (they are 
not all Pattern magi), and to the members of the mystic tradition of 
the Ahl-I-Batin. I sincerely hope that I have been able to give the 
young magi of Convivio Holmiensis a better understanding of how 
their Avatars guide them.

Servant of the Highest Mystery
Doctor Sandor Sallai, OOH

NOTE ON THE HOLLOW ONES
My father's opinion on Hollow Ones is that of many older magi. But 
I personally think that a description of the Essences of the magi is 
not complete without a description of the lost children, since they 
are beginning to swell the ranks of those opposing the 
Technocracy. In 1992 AD, I discussed the matter of Essence with a 
young girl of the Hollow One group in London. She did not wish to 
acknowledge the fact that an Essence influences the magus' life, but 
I still got the impression that Hollow Ones actually are directed by 
their Avatars. The Hollow Ones are composed by members of all 
families of Avatars, but coloured by their nihilistic and narcissistic 
view of the world, and thus Hollow Ones of the same Essence can 
vary a great deal in how they seek Ascension. It is tragic that the 
Avatars in these dark times must manifest in forms of magi without 
guidance from the Higher Truths. It is my conviction that the 
Traditions must help these unfortunate young magi to truly express 
their Essences.

In the Light of the Enlightened Masters
Acolyte Konrad Sallai

