SONS OF ETHER ROTES
by Andrew E. Larsen
aelarsen@students.wisc.edu
	
	The Sons of Ether operate on the principle that science (i.e. 
magic) must not only be correct, but also elegant and aesthetically 
pleasing as well.  Science must be fun and exciting, and their rotes 
often appeal to the inner child.  Many of their rotes involve creating 
new and unheard of forces and substances with exciting and unusual 
properties (thus most Sons have at least a 2 in Prime).  This is not to 
say that their effects are harmless.  While most Sons conduct their 
science along socially responsible lines (at least, as they understand 
the concept), an enraged Son is capable of dispatching the object of 
her wrath in any number of unpleasant and peculiar ways.
	The Sons of Ether take their rotes very seriously, and the 
majority of them are published, along with copious notes and test 
results, in Paradigma.  Thus most Sons have at least an awareness of 
the rotes invented by other members of the Tradition.  Failing to 
publish one's rotes is generally seen as a sign of a poor scientist.  
Despite this, most Sons hold one or two of their favorite rotes back 
from publication, in order to be able to surprise others.  Thus, many 
Sons have developed the same rote, and they often accuse each other 
of stealing their ideas.
	Another problem they frequently encounter is inter-Tradition 
paradigm clashes.  While all Sons follow the basic principles of their 
Tradition, there is a wider latitude of belief within this Tradition 
than within any other.  Occasionally two Sons will discover that their 
approach to science is so different that they count as Sleeper 
witnesses to each other's work.  Fortunately, this is a comparatively 
rare phenomenon.  

Chemical Shortcut (Matter 1)

	The Sons of Ether employ a different version of the periodic 
table than do conventional scientists, which can only be expressed 
with a three dimensional model.  This allows them to pay attention to 
properties that most scientists overlook, thus enabling them to 
produce surprising results in laboratories.
(Each success reduces the difficulty on Science, Medicine, 
Pharmacology, Chemistry and similar rolls by 1, to a minimum 
difficulty of 3.)

The Revised Periodic Table (Matter 2)

	By following the Revised Periodic Table, a Son can subject any 
chemical to various processes and produce any other chemical he 
chooses, so long as he carefully monitors the reaction with his 
scientific meter.  Students learn this as the first step in producing 
new elements and substances.
(This transmutes simple substances into other simple substances.  It 
also allows desperate Sons to make do without the proper chemicals 
in a pinch.)

Crystallize Ether (Matter 2 Prime 2)
	
	This is one of the most basic tricks in the corpus of Etheric 
science, but it has many uses.  By generating an electric current on 
the proper wave band, the Ether in an area can be crystallized into a 
hard substance which can be used as a barrier, bridge, or even a 
prison (crystallized ether is normally gas permeable, but if the 
bandwidth is correct, the prisoner may have trouble getting oxygen).
(Each success gives the crystallized ether 2 'Health' levels and 1 soak 
die.)

Dr Goldburg's Fabulous Aerating Pill (Matter 3 Prime 2)

	This tiny white pill, usually sold alongside the Survival Pill in 
the Galactic Explorer's Survival Kit, provides oxygen in hostile 
atmospheres.
(The pill provides a 24 hour supply of oxygen to the user, time- 
released inside the lungs, while simultaneously transforming toxic 
gases into harmless compounds released through exhalation.)  

Gratzium (Matter 5, Prime 2)
	
	Doctor Wilhelm Gratz became tired of creating a different new 
substance every time he needed a different property, and thus he 
invented Gratzium, a substance capable of demonstrating multiple 
properties simultaneously as need arises.  Thus when his lab was 
raided by a group of Akashic monks who disliked his research 
methods, they first had to break down a Gratzium door with the 
tensile strength of diamond, and then had to contend with the 
soporific effects of gaseous Gratzium.  He was able to escape by 
distracting them with an explosion caused when he irradiated a small 
lump of powdered Gratzium.
(Each success on the initial role to create the Gratzium allows it to 
take on a single property specified by the Son at a later moment.  
Since these properties are revealed with statements like "Did I 
mention that liquid Gratzium is highly corrosive?", the effect is 
normally coincidental.)

Controlled Reaction (Forces 3, sometimes Prime 2)

	By limiting, canceling, or directing the release of energy during 
chemical reactions, the Son can effectively negate or expand any 
reaction she chooses.  The practical applications of this rote are 
endless, as the Sons are fond of demonstrating.
(Forces 3 is necessary to limit or negate a reaction, while Prime 2 can 
be added to increase a reaction.  Each success halves or doubles the 
energy in the reaction.  3 successes will prevent a reaction entirely.  
The exact effects are up to the storyteller, but greatly increasing the 
energy in a reaction will of course produce an explosion.)
 
Darklight Projection (Forces 3 Prime 2)

	Professor Prion discovered that by mixing different frequencies 
of the electromagnetic spectrum in the proper ratio, she was able to 
generate fields of darkness that propagate the way light does.  Sadly, 
the rote is not attributed to her, because her rival Professor Klaxon 
saw her notes and published the effect before she did, but Prion had 
the last laugh when she realized that he had failed to read her note 
about the necessity of using Spectrumnal Imaging Goggles within the 
projection field.
(The darkness produced by the rote is complete if more than 1 
success is scored.  Since the effect cancels out all other light waves, it 
cannot be penetrated by viewing on infrared or ultraviolet.  But if 
the scientist thinks to view along the wavelength of darkness, he will 
be able to see normally.)

The Silence Cannon (Forces 3 Prime 2)

	Another discovery of Professor Prion, who has a fascination 
with negative forces, the Silence Cannon emits devastating blasts of 
countersound, which not only cause damage but also temporarily 
render a region free of all sound.
(The Silence Cannon does normal Forces damage, and renders an area 
silent for one round.)

The Inertia Bomb (Forces 3)

	Yet another creation of Professor Prion, this device converts 
motive energy into inertia, thus making movement impossible within 
the bomb's area for the duration of the effect.  Among the bomb's 
various peculiar effects, falling objects are frozen in place.
(Each success gives the region 2 dice of Strength for the purpose of 
immobilizing those within it.  Anything attempting to move must 
overcome the effect's Strength with its own.  This is generally 
vulgar.)

Track Xenofauna (Spirit 1 Life 1)

	The renowned xenobiologist Ferris Shu was dedicated to the 
discovery of previously undocumented life forms, and she employed 
this rote to help her find such creatures.
(This allows the scientist to look through the Gauntlet into the Middle 
Umbra, thus spotting any Umbral creatures in the vicinity.)

Etheric Probe (Spirit 1 or 5 Correspondence 2)

	By launching a remote probe into the Near or Deep Umbra , a 
scientist is able to explore the Umbra without leaving the safety of 
her laboratory.
(This rote combines Correspondence Sensing with Umbral Sight.)

Ectoplasmic Depolarization (Spirit 4 Prime 2)

	The psychic researcher Prof. Ephemeris encountered many 
strange spiritual entities during his years of active research, and he 
eventually perfected this procedure to force disembodied 
consciousnesses to vacate the hosts they possess.  This process 
depolarizes the ectoplasm which makes up a spiritual entity, thus  
reducing the entity's ability to influence human minds.
(Each success grants the equivalent of 3 Willpower successes on an 
exorcism roll.)

Phosphorescent Marker (Life 2 Spirit 1)

	To aid her search for a mysterious creature living in the sewers 
of San Francisc, Ferris Shu released a large quantity of specially 
treated spores into the sewer system.  These spores quickly matured 
into a fungus that produced a ultraviolet phosphorescence if they 
came into contact with any lifeform that was not native to the 
Tellurian, and thus she was able to locate the kappa that had gotten 
trapped on this side of the Gauntlet.  Ferris employed a wide variety 
of effects based around simple lifeforms.
(This is one example of the sort of effects that biologist Sons produce 
on a regular basis.  They are generally tailored to one specific 
circumstance, but the basic principle is enormously flexible.)

Dr Goldburg's Wonderful Pan-Sufficient Survival Pill (Life 3 Prime 2)

	Dr Goldburg specialized in Umbral exploration and discovered 
many fascinating phenomena and strange lifeforms, until his ill-fated 
journey to Rigel 3, when a particularly strange lifeform discovered 
him.  But his legacy lives on in the form of his many inventions to 
make planetary exploration easier.  This tiny blue pill provides its 
user with complete nourishment for 1 day.

Reduction to Base Components (Life 5, Matter 3)

	Doctor Amino developed a process which would enable him to 
reduce organic tissue down to its base elements, each separated out 
into a neat mass.  He had intended to use it to smuggle endangered 
species into the country so he could examine them in a controlled 
setting, but the process saved his life when he was forced to use it on 
an NWO agent who tried to apprehend him.  To this day, the agent 
sits in a neat  row of jars on Amino's shelf.
(The rote is an all or nothing effect.  It requires 5 successes, and if 
successful, the person is separated out into a variety of chemicals, 
and will remain so until the spell is reapplied.  If the effect is 
unwoven by someone who doesn't possess the appropriately ranked 
spheres, the target will die.)

Orgonne Dilation (Mind 3)
by Tristan Brandhorst
	
	The pulp hero Professor Etheric spent much of his scientific 
energy in the study of the human body's vitalizing Orgonne energy.  
He discovered that by dilating the metacerebelic valves through 
which flowed he could siphon the energy out of a person, thus 
sapping them of the will to resist.
(This effect acts as a Mental command to surrender by devitalizing 
the target and making them feel that resistance is pointless.)

Temporary Inducement of Detangible State (Prime 2, sometimes 
Mind 1)

	Another basic effect, this involves running an electric current 
of the proper frequency through any solid object, thus temporarily 
disrupting the object's tangible matrix, which in laymen's terms 
means making it desolidified briefly.  The most common use of this 
effect is to allow a Son to escape imprisonment (a distressingly 
common situation).  Thus Doctor Pangaea recommends to all the 
students in his Practical Science 101 course that they carry a hidden 
battery on their persons at all times for just such emergencies.
(This rote is basically the same effect as Rubbing the Bones, except 
that it takes advantage of the target's momentary lack of existence.  
Thus restraints can be slipped out of.  Mind 1 is sometimes added to 
enable to Son to calculate the moment of maximum detangibility, 
thus allowing him to run through a fluxing door before it reforms.  
Without Mind, there is a chance that the door would reform as the 
Son was passing through it, a highly unpleasant experience for all 
involved.

Disintegration Ray (Prime 4)

	A favorite of the Sons of Ether during the 1950s, this device 
annihilates an object by draining it of all Quintessence.
(This is identical to the Flames of Purification rote used by the 
Celestial Chorus.  When it is complete, all that is left is a fine layer of 
granular matter.)

Etheric Flux Jamming (Correspondence 3)

	This rote is widely employed by Sons to prevent rivals from 
spying on their research.  It creates a zone of fluxed ether which 
causes interference on remote viewing and teleportation attempts.
(This is a standard Warding rote.)

Force Field (Correspondence 3, Forces 3, Life 3, Matter 3)

	This is the realization of the classic science fiction idea.  This 
creates a barrier through which Force, Life, and Matter patterns 
cannot pass.  Since it is resistant to Forces, it manifests as a pale gray 
region that feels solid to the touch.  Sound, vibrations, and wave 
phenomena cannot pass it either.
(Each success in creating the field offers 1 die of countermagic 
against attempts to breach the field magically.  This effect is vulgar.)

Chronal Energy Generator (Time 4)

	Professor Reflux is justly pleased with this invention, which has 
enabled him to finish his experiments when his wife was demanding 
that he sit down to dinner immediately, as well as saving his life a 
few times.  The Chronal Energy Generator literally creates time.  He 
has also perfected a small, hand-held version that provides a similar, 
but less powerful effect.
(The Chronal Energy Generator generates extra time within the field 
of its effect.  Each success creates 1 hour of time for the scientist to 
use as he pleases.  It is possible to cross into or out of the field, but 
doing so will cause damage equal to the number of successes. The 
Portable Chronal Energy Generator acts as the Time 3 effect "Time 
Dilation".)

