Some comments about "The Sea of Dust"

Thank you very much for the compliments about "The Sea of Dust". 
Someone asked if the Kia was the same thing as the Avatar. In my 
opinion this is almost true. The Kia is the "True" avatar, the 
unchanging divine spark. What other mages call the Avatar is the 
Kia plus additional fragments of the soul, a kind of conglomerate. 
This is of course only my personal opinion, and I doubt even the 
Euthanatos agree with me on it. 

How does an Euthanatos know who is ready for the Good Death?

The most important methods are psychology, magick and intuition. 
In my campaign, one of the players is an Euthanatos. He is 
constantly on the lookout for people to help. He studies them with 
the rotes below, trying to find people with much entropy inside. He 
also tries to psychologically decide if they are ready. And finally, 
there is the important intuition. A good Euthanatos will *feel* if a 
person is ready.

However, the characters nature is Judge. His problem is that he 
tend to decide that someone is ready, and kill without really 
knowing if it is right. The nagging suspicion that he sometimes 
make mistakes is slowly making itself felt... :-)

In these rotes the mage point his bone towards the subject, and feel 
the results in the doll. (Yes, I know that Mind have rattle as foci 
among Euthanatos, but I think the doll is more appropriate in these 
rotes). If the subject is young and healthy the doll will feel warm 
and alive, while if the subject is suicidal it will slump together.

The Abyss of the Mind (Entropy 1 Mind 2)
The mage feel the entropy in someones mind. In this way the mage 
may get an impression of how strong the person really is, and if it 
has any weak points, like deep traumas, neuroses or guilt. 

The Abyss of the Body (Entropy 1 Life 1)
The mage feel the entropy in someones body. Weak points, age, 
sickness and wounds will become apparent. The mage will know if 
the person has long time left to live or is dying in some way. 

The Abyss of the Soul (Entropy 1 Prime 1)
The mage feel the entropy in someones flow of quintessence. 
Normally this is very small, but in some people the flow is 
disturbed. This is often a sign that something is very wrong about 
the person. It could be that dangerous magick has hurt him or that 
his Kia is disturbed in some way. Euthanatos become very 
interested in these persons, and will study them as much as 
possible before deciding what to do.
