Light of Darkness (Forces 1)
----------------------------
The mage can see in darkness. His eyes give of a weird gleam. 
Hermetic mages usually draw the Hebrew letter Ayin (which means 
eye) on their forehead with the seal while slowly chanting its name.

Evoke the Spirits of the Forces (Forces 1 Spirit 2)
---------------------------------------------------
Hermetic mages have always been interested in elementals. This 
rote is used to communicate with the spirits in different forces like 
light, darkness, heat or electricity. It will not give the summoner 
any control over them, but they might obey him if they want to. 
Hermetics draw a circle, and place some of the force in the Triangle 
of Art outside (If the mage want to communicate with the spirits of 
light, a light source is needed. For the spirits of darkness a pool of 
shadow. For the spirits of radioactivity a piece of uranium). Then 
the spirit is evoked with a long incantation which names all forces 
which control and rule the desired type of spirit. 

Fire of St. Elmo (Forces 2)
---------------------------
The mage discharges static electricity around himself in a weak 
green glow. The result is quite eerie and impressive. The light is not 
very strong, and will not light up darkness very well. It can 
however be concentrated into a small ball of light, usually playing 
up and down on the mages staff or car antenna.

Sphere of Truth (Forces 3 Mind 2 Prime 2)
-----------------------------------------
This rote is used by Order of Hermes at tribunals and trials to test if 
someone tells the truth or talks with true conviction about 
something. The user of the rote draw a symbol above the 
Showstone using the seal, while chanting the twelve secret names 
of Truth. From inside the showstone a small sphere of vibrating, 
dancing light emerges. It can be handled, and while held in the 
palm it will change colour, size and shape depending on the bearers 
state of mind and what he says. If he lies, the sphere will become 
darker, stained and begin to vibrate with a eerie sound. If the 
bearer tells the truth it will become brighter. If the bearer talks 
with true conviction and tells the truth it will jump up and down, 
glittering with intense colours depending on mood.

Lines of Magnetic Force (Forces 3 Prime 2)
------------------------------------------
The mage creates a strong, directed magnetic field which can move 
objects made out of magnetic metal. Hermetics usually do this by 
inclining the Seal to reflect the light from the sun or a lamp on the 
object, and then move the reflected spot.
[ Each success will give the field 1 dot in strength. This rote will 
only affect magnetic materials, but some mages also use Matter to 
make the object magnetic. ]

Arclight (Forces 3 Prime 2)
---------------------------
The mage creates a small pattern of electricity and light. The result 
is an arclightning, which shine with a clear light. Usually the mage 
creates it between the thumb and index finger. It can also be sent 
away as a small lightning bolt. Hermetics do this rote by drawing 
the Hebrew letter shin with the Seal in the air, while chanting the 
name of a god of light or thunder (Like Ormus, Indra, Zeus or Thor).

Receptacle for lesser forces (Forces 2 Prime 2)
-----------------------------------------------
The mage consecrates a container (like a flask, a box or a statue) to 
be able to contain forces, fills it with force, and then seals it. When 
the seal is broken (or the spell fades) the forces will be set free. 
First the receptacle is consecrated using strengthening and 
protecting forces ("In the name of Uriel the Shield-Bearer and 
Michael the Sword-Bearer I bind...") and pentacles and prime-
symbols are drawn around it. Then the receptacle is filled, and 
sealed by the Hebrew letter Resh (which means container) drawn 
by the Seal of Salmon.
[ Exactly what happens when the seal is broken depends on the 
nature of the force contained. Light can be emitted slowly from an 
small opening, or as a flash when a box is opened. Electricity can 
give the opener a shock. After the binding spells have faded, the 
force is also set free. ]

Invocation of Negation (Forces 3)
---------------------------------
The mage negates a force; light becomes darkness, positive current 
becomes negative. This often leads to the neutralisation of the force, 
and can destroy sensitive machinery. The mage perform the rote by 
chanting a invocation of the forces of negativity, and drawing the 
Hebrew letter Aleph in the air with the Seal. 

Circle of Light (Forces 3 Prime 2)
----------------------------------
The mage builds up a circle of power around himself, which attack 
everybody who tries to cross. It often looks like a circle of fire or 
electricity. The mage usually draw the circle on the ground using 
chalk and the Seal, while chanting divine names in the four 
directions. 

Purification with Solar Fire (Forces 5 Prime 2)
-----------------------------------------------
One of Celestial Chorus most devastating effects. The mage holds up 
his fire while singing a strong invocation of the Sun. From the fire a 
stream of solar plasma emerges, streaming around the mage 
towards its target.. The result is a eruption of light and heat, 
destroying anything in its way, which is said to purify everything 
completely. 
[ Note that the mage must have protected himself before casting this 
rote, unless he wants to be killed by the plasma. To strike the right 
target(s), the mage need at least 3 successes. Otherwise the plasma 
will just erupt anywhere. Everybody hit will take successes * 4 
damage (aggravated), everything flammable will ignite or explode 
and everybody is temporarily blinded by the light. Kindred will
have a *hard* time, as they are hurt by the light in addition to the
plasma.]
