The Forecasters
-----------------

The Prognosticators are one of the most well guarded secrets
of the Technocracy, and one of the main reasons for Its
success. They have members from all conventions, and chart the
future evolution of society, economics, technology and even
the Technocracy itself. 

The Prognosticators, colloquially called the Forecasters, have
been a vital part of the Technocracy since it started. In the
beginning they used astrology and methods which today would be
called magick, but as time went on their methods evolved.
After the spread of trade, they began to develop the nascent
science of Economics together with the Syndicate. They
invented statistics and game- theory to help them, and they
discovered Sociology and Psychology centuries before the
sleepers was allowed to do so. Today they use complex
mathematical models run on supercomputers to analyse and
predict future developments. They use catastrophe theory
(which they carefully suppresses among the sleepers), advanced
versions of chaos theory and their own branch of psychology,
psychomathematics. 

The accuracy of their models is startling, far better than
anything imagined by sleepers. The Forecasters have centuries
of data and experience to draw on, and they have had many
chances to test their models extremely carefully. Not only
that, but by being a part of the Technocracy they have had
true "Insider Information", and they have even manipulated
society to become more predictable!  By helping the New World
Order create collectivist societies, they remove the random
influence of individuals from their equations.  The
Progenitors make people more controllable and less creative
using their drugs, thus simplifying them for the Forecasters. 

The Forecasters models are extremely complex, and require
massive computer installations to run efficiently. In earlier
times they employed hundreds of clerks for their calculations,
each clerk a small cog in the human computer. The Virtual
Adepts and Forecasters had close contact, and the Adepts made
major contribution to the models. Their defection was a hard
blow, but the Forecasters survived relatively intact. Today
there are still some Forecasters inside the Adepts, not to
mention those who struck out on their own, forming secret
groups hiding from both Traditions and Technocracy. 

Needless to say, the forecasts they make are vital for
planning inside the Technocracy. They can calculate the most
probable results of any action, the general trends of any
system, how groups and individuals react and the long term
changes in history. Their methods work absolutely best on
large groups with little individual influence, like nations or
corporations. They are seldom right about short term and small
developments, but on larger scales they are chillingly
accurate. Individuals and random events are the bane of their
predictions, causing radical changes without any way to
predict it beforehand. However, the Forecasters have begun to
learn how to deal with even them, as there seems to be some
ways to approximately factor them. Another problem is groups
who attempt to avoid being predicted or use predictive methods
themselves, since they cause feedback in the calculations.
Sometimes this stabilises things and makes everything much
more calculable, but most of the time it just destroys the
accuracy of the trends. This is a great limitation, since it
makes it very hard to predict the future developments of the
Technocracy itself and the Traditions. Much work is underway
to find a solution. 

Beside modelling the future, the Forecasters also study how to
model individuals, organisations and economical systems. Using
their advanced psychological models and all available
information about a person, they can create a simulation of
the person and test how he or she will react in different
situations. They can find weak points, use the simulation to
improve their models and develop rather accurate psychological
profiles. The same is true for larger groups, which are much
easier to predict. Progenitors use their models to predict the
development of organisms, Iteration X and the Void Engineers
use their models to plan future technological and scientific
progress. Another important discovery is that they can study
history and find patterns which doesn't fit in. This is
usually a sign of purposeful manipulation, and by comparing
with Technocracy records they can discover awakened activity
or other groups using their methods. However, this works best
from a distance in time (to get enough overview), so it is of
limited use in tracking down current activities. 

One of the most important aspects of their work is finding
bifurcation points (also known as horseshoe nails or
fulcrums), small events which will have great impact later on.
When they find one, they carefully try to analyse the effects
of them and plot the possible outcomes, which is often quite
hard. They make sure nobody else will interfere, and
manipulate them to suit their ends.  This is sometimes risky,
and several times they have failed. But the Forecasters are
quite good by now, and some even have learned how to create
bifurcation points by manipulating the parameters of a system.
A typical example of a Bifurcation Point was the elimination
of Lee Harvey Oswald, which created lasting social and
psychological changes in American society. 

Naturally, the Forecasters have great influence in the
Technocracy.  Without them, the organisation simply wouldn't
work at all, and it is dependent upon their work. That gives
the Forecasters great influence, but they are also watched
very closely. When a project is underway, the Administration
often lets several teams work in parallel without knowledge of
each other to make sure no manipulation of results or errors
are done. 

The Forecasters generally work in research teams of 4-10
persons, often consisting of several conventions to deal with
different aspects of their areas of study. The Economists of
the Syndicate are experts at economical planning and
prediction, the Social Engineers of NWO at the social aspects
and Iteration X at the technological side. The Progenitors and
Void Engineers are more interested in pure research, and are
mostly used as experts in narrow areas close to their work,
such as the medical industry. 

Recently some Forecasters have begun to notice worrying trends
and irregularities, sometimes even inside the Technocracy.
Their source so far is unknown, but some members have begun
fear that the organisation has internal flaws which might even
destroy it in the future. So far they haven't dared discuss
this with their superiors without any evidence, but some of
them have begun to worry that time is running out. 

Another problem is the rouge Forecasters. Beside those
Forecasters who left with the Virtual Adepts, there are
others. The Technocracy has tried to suppress the true methods
of forecasting, but not entirely succeeded. Sometimes
carelessness or independent discoveries have allowed outsiders
to learn the secret, and this has led to small groups of rouge
Forecasters. 

Most of these groups are small, secret societies which use the
forecasts to gain wealth and power. Some use them to try to
change the direction of history. They are seldom thinking of
themselves as mages, more as scientists or engineers. Many of
them don't even know anything about the other forces in the
world, although some suspect something is afoot. Most of their
existence is spent in hiding from real and imagined foes.
Those groups who don't hide well enough fall prey to others or
the Technocracy, which is naturally quite interested in
competitors. However, It doesn't destroy all rouge groups It
finds. Instead it often tries to subvert them, especially
those groups who are interested only in wealth and power. They
become very useful pawns for the Syndicate, who uses them to
do its dirty work. The Idealists have sometimes surprisingly
technocratic ideals, but most of the time they are just
trouble and are terminated. 

Foci and spheres: The Forecasters might belong to different
Conventions, but they mostly use the same foci,
psychomathematical models run on mainframe computers. The
Forecasters specialise in mainly Time and Entropy, with much
attention to Correspondence and Mind. The other spheres are
individual specialisations. 

Quote: "According to the Helleman-analysis, the stock market
will crash on the 8th September, plus or minus five days, with
a probability of 89 percent. However, there is an alternative
solution involving just some market fluctuations which could
be strengthened if we can temporarily decrease the economical
flux through alpha-variant stocks. If this is done, a reverse
bifurcation followed by a realignment would make the
continuous solution stronger, probably around 67% percent."

Modelling methodologies
-----------------------

Forecast (Time 2)
This is the most common duty of the Forecasters. They feed
their massive databases into their models, and predict the
most probable future outcomes of the current situation. Often
they limit their predictions to a narrow area to avoid having
to do too complex calculations. The predictions take the form
of stacks of printouts, showing the statistical behaviour of
the future in a complex psychomathematical notation that has
to be interpreted by experts. [ The difficulty varies upon the
conditions. The initial difficulty is 5, but is changed due to
other factors: 

Acurracy:
+2	Accurrate information needed (Date of stock market crash)
0	Normal precision (which candidate will win the elections?)
-2	Only general predictions needed (will the economy grow?)

Size of forecasted population:
+2	Very small (a few individuals, a cabal)
+1	Small (less than 30 persons)
-1	Large (more than one million people)
-2	Very large (nations, the whole world)

Dependency on individual actions
-2	No dependency (bureaucracies, social movements)
0	Normal dependency
+2	Strong dependency (charismatic leaders, inventors)

Likelihood of random influence
+2	Very High (Stockmarkets)
+1	High (Assassination attempts, elections)
0	Normal
-1	Low (Soap operas)

Timescale
+2	Very short (days)
+1	Short (weeks)
0	Medium (months)
-1	Long (years)
-2	Very long (decades)

Miscellaneous
+1	Fast, chaotic development.
-1	Slow development.
-1	Pivotal person(s) simulated.
-2	Pivotal person(s) well understood
-2	Active manipulations to keep prediction correct.
+2	Active manipulations to increase randomness. 
+2	Awakened beings involved
+5	Studied group uses prediction.
+10	Studied group uses prediction and tries to avoid tracking.

Examples:  
Predicting the global economic trends instead is easy, since
its a long timescale, no individual dependency, a very large
group and no detailed predictions are needed, giving a
difficulty of -3. This is of course compounded if future
manipulations of the Syndicate are taken into account, when it
rises to 4 (Awakened and uses prediction too). 

Predicting the future developments of vampiric society in a
city the next few decades would involve a small population
with strong dependency on individuals, a very long timescale
and awakened beings. The resulting difficulty is 5+1+2-2+2=8. 

Predicting the activities of the Virtual Adepts are almost
impossible, since they actively tries to avoid being
predicted, support randomness and individuality, develop fast
and struggle with the Technocracy. The difficulty becomes 19
for normal timescales!]

Detect Pattern (Correspondence 3 Entropy 1 Time 2)
By comparing events with each other and running sophisticated
algorithms, the Forecasters can detect patterns which normally
would seem random. They can predict how the patterns will
develop, trace their history and often discover who is behind
it.  Typical applications are scanning for Tradition activity
or crime. 

Model Person (Mind 4 Time 2)
By collecting all available information about a person into
their computers, the Forecasters can create a model of the
person. This simple simulation can then be studied as if it
was the person, and reveal such things as mental state,
general personality, weak and strong points or behaviour under
certain conditions. Its not a real AI, just a
psychomathematical model which will react to programmed
stimuli, but there have been some success with merging such
models with Iteration X designed AIs and Progenitor designed
clone bodies to create replica persons. 

Track Manipulations (Time 2 Entropy 2)
This is continuously done to see if other groups attempt to
manipulate the trends. The Forecasters carefully analyse
events to see if they have been manipulated by someone, using
their computers to search for patterns. The difficulty lies in
the fact that most manipulators are very careful, and the
results are seldom apparent until years later. 

Find Bifurcation Point (Entropy 1 Time 2)
By analysing the lyapunov-exponents of the historical flow
around certain events, the Forecasters can find which events
have the greatest potential to change history. When found,
they can be further analysed with "what-if"-scenarios. 

Create/Destroy Bifurcation Point (Entropy 5 Time 2 Prime 3)
This is very advanced manipulations, which require massive
manipulations of social, economical or technical parameters.
By changing them slightly, the Forecasters can bring
Bifurcation-points into existence or remove them, but the
changes are not entirely controllable. All such manipulations
require approval from the Administration. Removing such points
are more common, since its better to follow a known track than
to follow an unknown track. 

Themes
------
Is there any free will or does determinism rule everything?
Is it really possible to control the course of history, or do
those who think it delude themselves? Is really the past or
future absolute?  What are the consequences of meddling with
history? Does knowledge about the future make you less human? 

Mood
----
Stories including the Forecasters will often include an
element of paranoia and twisted logic. They are always on
their guard against possible enemies, even enemies who have
not yet become their enemies. They always try to think at
least one step before everybody else, sometimes getting caught
in logical loops and bizarre models. Their actions are not
always apparent, because they are only interested in their
long-range effects, not the acts themselves. At the same time
the Forecasters become cold and inhuman, always thinking of
people as factors in their equations. 


Story Ideas
-----------

A group of Virtual Adept Forecasters have been wiped out. 
Somebody either didn't like them, or desperately wanted them
not to discover something. Who did it? The Technocracy?
Radical tradition mages? Rouge Forecasters? And why does it
seem as they knew they were about to become targets? Are they
really dead, or do they just play dead? 

The players stumble upon a group of rouge Forecasters, perhaps
by wrecking one of their predictions (individuals and awakened
people are the bane of good planning). They might become some
rather unusual allies, both wealthy and powerful but also
paranoid and without knowledge of the supernatural forces. 

A bifurcation event is imminent. The result of a local
election will in time get enormous consequences if the
Technocracy can ensure that the right candidate wins. The
players find out about this, maybe just because the
Technocracy seems to be so interested in the outcome. If the
players manage to interfere, they can prevent the Technocracy
from taking yet another step towards their Ascension.  But
what if the Forecasters have anticipated this? Maybe the
players in fact are required to bring about the bifurcation,
and the election is just a ruse to get the tradition mages to
do something foolish. Who knows what the Forecasters have
planned? 

A team of Forecasters have discovered a chain of events that
will in the end spell the doom for the Technocracy. If they
happen, the Technocracy will disintegrate, and its fall will
probably mean the destruction of civilisation and possibly all
life on Earth. Their superiors won't listen, so they have to
get help from the Traditions to avert the threat. Will they
listen to the technomancers (who hardly like the traditions
either) and try to help them save the *Technocracy*? And the
event-chain which must be stopped may require some very
unorthodox acts, possibly even against the interests of the
Traditions. And then there are some mages who would like to
help the Technocracy on its way to its doom... 


Required Reading
----------------
"In the Country of the Blind" by Michael Flynn. A must for any
Mage Storyteller. Secret societies, amateur technomancers and
rampant paranoia! 




