The Game of the Two Oracles

Once upon a time, two Oracles were playing a game. Each of the 
pieces represented a concept, an abstract form. But they were not 
just symbols, they were actually made out of the pure essences of 
the concepts, and every move on the board reflected an event in 
the physical world far below - or maybe the Oracles made their 
moves to reflect the world. 

One day one of the Oracles said: 'I will become bored with this game 
soon.'
The other looked up from the board and asked: 'Have the patterns 
on the board stopped telling you their secrets?'
'No, they still reveal new facets of the diamond that is reality.'
'Is the game too orderly or chaotic?'
'No, since when any of us plays too regularly the other one will 
seize the chance to exploit this order. And when the game becomes 
too chaotic the chaos itself will become a player we will play 
against.'
'Is the game too simple then?'
'Yes, this game reflects a part of reality. We have played with a 
small board and just a few pieces, and we have played with boards 
so immense that even we cannot see across them, where 
uncountable pieces act out their dramas. But it has never been 
complete.'
'So you wish to add a new piece to the game?'
'Yes, I have it here. It represents the game itself.'
The other Oracle looked at the piece and smiled.
'It would definitely make the game more interesting, and as you 
say, it would make the game complete. Let us set up the game 
again.'

The Oracles set up their game, and among the pieces they added the 
game itself. Soon they were involved in its complex patterns, and 
watched with amusement how the game itself affected the pieces 
around it. 
'Do you see those two pieces?' one of them asked.
'Yes. They must represent ourselves in relation to the game. Now 
we are a part of it.'
'You were right, this simple extension of the rules have made the 
game much more interesting. Let us see what happens now.' The 
Oracle tried to move some pieces in a way to remove the game 
itself from the game. To their surprise it failed.
'We should have expected it,' the other remarked, 'the game itself 
cannot vanish from the game, or it would be a contradiction. And 
the rules do not allow such things'. 
'Interesting. But what if the rules changed?' the other one mused, 
and began a complex gambit to make the rules change. As they 
watched, the gambit dissolved harmlessly into confusion.
'You cannot change the rules that way, because then the gambit 
would have been illegal. You have to change the rules so that the 
gambit which changes the rules is itself allowed.'
'Astute as always, my friend. Let us try to find new rules then, 
which we are able to bring about according to both the old rules 
and the new ones.'

The two Oracles played on, absorbed in the game. They soon 
learned how to make the game change its rules, but despite their 
attempts they could not make it contradict itself. The game became 
more and more complex, then it was suddenly simplified, but the 
pieces representing the two Oracles and the game itself was still on 
the board. Half seriously, half jokingly one Oracle tried to attack the 
piece representing the other. But the attack failed completely, 
despite that the other did nothing to defend himself.
'You cannot remove my piece from the game without ending it, my 
friend.'
'And ending the game is impossible as long as the game itself is still 
on the board.'
'And we cannot remove the game without causing a contradiction. 
So we are trapped here, unable to leave our playing.'

They continued to play for a while, but the joy was gone. Eventually 
one said: 'We will remain trapped here forever, if we cannot find 
our way out. Let us join forces and yet again seek to create a 
contradiction'
This time they gathered together all their pieces, and used all their 
cunning in making them change the rules in such a convoluted way 
that the game seemed to transmute from a mere game into reality 
itself and eventually into something else altogether, far beyond 
both game and reality. But there were still no contradictions, just 
new rules. The Oracles tried again, and again. The rules became an 
immense cathedral of logic, but still without any flaw. 

The Oracles continued playing for eons, unable to stop. One evening 
a small girl happened to walk by, and she was delighted with the 
beautiful pieces, carved out of truth itself. While the two Oracles 
intently watched their latest gambit, she quietly picked up a small 
piece when they weren't looking and took it with her. After a while 
they noticed that something was amiss, but they could not 
remember what. 
'There is something wrong with the patterns.' one said.
'Yes. Actually, there should be a piece at that corner according to 
the rules. But there isn't.' the other pointed out.
'But in that case...' They quickly forced the game into a 
contradiction, which ended it. Unsteadily, they rose to their feet and 
looked about at the world outside the game.
'The contradiction was not a new piece, it was the absence of a 
piece' one mused 'And I cannot remember which one. Maybe it 
have never existed.'
'We could have walked away from the game at any time' the other 
Oracle smiled. They pondered this for a moment, looked at each 
other, and then Ascended.
