From: Peter Jackson <Peter@pjackson.demon.co.uk>
Subject: Hiding from the Technocracy
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Date: Sat, 30 Nov 1996 16:03:18 +0000 (GMT)
Organization: Organisation name, location. Telephone/Fax?
Path: news.kth.se!tybalt.admin.kth.se!celsiustech.se!seunet!news2.swip.net!mn6.swip.net!newsfeed.sunet.se!news99.sunet.se!nntp-oslo.UNINETT.no!nntp-trd.UNINETT.no!nntp.uio.no!news-feed.inet.tele.dk!enews.sgi.com!EU.net!usenet2.news.uk.psi.net!uknet!usenet1.news.uk.psi.net!uknet!dispatch.news.demon.net!demon!Peter
Lines: 93
Message-ID: <ant301618345Ec#G@pjackson.demon.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pjackson.demon.co.uk
X-NNTP-Posting-Host: pjackson.demon.co.uk
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; CHARSET=ISO-8859-1
X-Newsreader: ANT RISCOS Marcel [ver 1.09]

Some thoughts on how Tradition mages can hide from the Technocracy.

Arcane and Sanctum are obvious and easy for the Mages who have them.

Most searching will be done using Correspondence, since that allows
one mage to cover a wide area, but correspondence alone is insufficient
since mages are appear identical to sleepers to normal senses.

Technocrats always need foci. For searching surveilance devices such
as cameras and airport metal detectors are obvious. Have you noticed
the increasing use of cameras monitoring public areas? In the WoD this
has to be a Technocracy plot. Another type of focus would be records -
the technocrat uses a computer to search medical, social security,
employment records, etc. looking for someone who fits the pattern of
being a mage.

A search using a surveilance device close to the mage, may be detected
by a mage using a perception + awareness roll. Awareness 1 would just
a feeling of magic being used on the mage. Awareness 2 would let him
know that it was some kind of scrying. Awareness 3 would locate the
device being used. A Correspondence 1 effect could warn the mage when
the device focussed on him.

If he senses it the mage can use countermagick to try to stop it finding
him. Fully countermagicked the Technocrat would detect only a 'glitch'
in the system (which he would probably deduce was caused by a mage).
Partially countermagiced the Technocrat would detect the presence of a
mage but not get a complete identification. Offensive countermagic would
reveal the Technocrat doing the searching, allowing a mage with
sufficient Correspondence and other spheres to attack him, discouraging
further searches. Sphere vs Sphere countermagic could be done with any
of Correspondence 2 (close window), Entropy 3 (slay machine), Forces 2
(system havoc), Matter 2 (broken wire), or Mind 2 (don't notice - but
this would leave a record). These are all localised effects, they 
would not completely stop the search. Anti-Magick would do so (the
system crashes) forcing the Technocrat to restart the search (reboot
the system). An indirect search (through the records) would give less
information, but could not be countermagicked.

Correspondence 2 can create wards which can be built up over time
until they are almost impossible to penetrate. A mage who is entering 
an area he knows is likely to be monitored could create a temporary
ward over himself. Since it would almost always be coincidental he 
could even do so on a routine basis. This would not stop local
monitoring (unless the mage really believed that cameras are magickal)
but would prevent the magickal collection and filtering by the
technocracy. So records would normally be left.

Entropy 2 could be used if there is a (chaotic) crowd of people around
to make sure there is always someone between the mage and the camera.
Entropy 3 could cause the camera to fail.

Forces 2 could blow a fuse in the camera, or to bend light around mage
to make him invisible, though this is likely to be vulgar.

Life 3 can be used to disguise a mage, though Life 5 (Perfect
Metamorphosis) would be needed to completely fool someone using Life 1.

Matter 2 can be used to stop a camera working.

Mind 1 can block mental probes, and disguise the mage's aura. Mind 2
in conjunction with Correspondence can stop any observer, even a remote
one from noticing the mage. With Mind 3 he can also get him to turn off 
the recording equipment, or even erase it, and make it seem accidental.

Prime 4 could be used to supress the flow of prime within a mage, to
make appear to be a sleeper, even to magickal senses (except mind
reading). This effect would automatically as soon as the mage attempted to use any magick.

Spirit 4 could be used to channel a spirit within an appropiate gift.

None of the above would stop a search of existing records, but 
Correspondence 2 could be used to find them, and then several spheres
could be used to destroy or alter them. Warding would prevent this,
but the VAs would have had to them before they left the Technocracy
and would have scrambled most of the records held on computer, just
before they left. Some of them may still have access codes for
getting through the wards. Probably it is routine for a mentor to
arrange for an initiates records to be destroyed. The old records could
still be search using Time 2 (backups), but it will be more difficult.

Talismans could be created which duplicate one or more of the effects
above.

Overall it seems that it is possible for the Technocracy to find any 
mage, but it is not easy if the mage is experienced, and there is some
risk to it. Beginning mages may need protection if they don't have the
spheres to protect themselves.

-- 
Peter Jackson - work address pjackson@uk.oracle.com
Everything I write is my own opinion

