From: "Peter Sears" <kinesys@hotmail.com>
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: The immune system


Rueben sat on the roof, his mind whirling. He shivered. A cold wind blew off the
Hudson this evening but that wasn't what was making him shiver...
"knock knock." It was Kerouac.
"Go away."
He was holding a lawn chair, " I saw a vampire nosing around the neighborhood.
So i turned him into this lawn chair and I decided to come up, and lounge
around ,and look at the stars..."
"Sam."
"And help you stop brooding."
"Go away."
"Also...I brought beer."
"...Well...O.K....But I don't feel like talking."
"Fair enough."
   Sam had brought up his battered red Igloo cooler. To Rueben's simultaneous
delight and annoyance, it was stocked with ice cold Asahi and couple of turkey
sandwiches. His favorites. Even though Reuben was a life adept, his stomach
growled.
"Sandwich?"
"Sure, Bottle opener?"
"Please."
   After a few moments of wrestling with the lawn chair, Kerouac had finally
made himself comfortable and sat back taking in the city and the sky. He was
infuriatingly relaxed. Neither of them spoke for twenty minutes.
" Naya is worried."
" I know."
" She thinks that you are mad at her. Are you?"
Rueben sat up in very real surprise. " No. I mean, I accepted what she does a
long time ago. I knew what she would do...It's just that ...I nearly dropped
the ball. I almost lost her today."
" She'd tell you that it was meant to be then. That her work here had been
fulfilled."
"Fatalism."
"It's what she believes"
"Do you?"
Kerouac laughed a short barking laugh. " My only claim to wisdom is that I
don't know what I believe." He took a long pull on his beer. They sat in
silence some more.
" What was that thing?"
Kerouac shifted,looked thoughtfull. " Well...Unless I miss my guess, those
cultists were trying to raise up an avatar of Y'Golonac."
"Who's that?"
" A Great Old One. But thankfully, not a particularly Great Old One. You would
probably known of them as Outsider Things or Dwellers of the Fringe."
"Jesus."
"Surely you knew about them."
" I was a progenitor for chrissake.I worked in a lab, I never saw anything like
that."
"But you knew about them, right?"
"Well sure, but it's not the same thing. I know Belgium exists but i've never
seen it.and it's certainly never tried to rip my head off."
"Well, I could argue that Belgium doesn't really exist,mainly because i've been
there. But I take your point."
" It...It was horrible."
"Yup...Want another."
"Yeah." Sam passed him an opened bottle. " So...you know more about this stuff
than I do. Care to enlighten me?"
" Sure, what do you want to know?"
"Well I guess my main question is...what keeps them from eating us all alive?"
"Some would say the Gauntlet."
" But you wouldn't."
" No. As with most things technocratic, that answer isn't
particularly...umm...Holistic."
" Should I be offended?"
" No. Many young Dreamspeakers will rail against the vast unfairness of the
Gauntlet. Whereas, older ones like myself, understand it's place in the grand
scheme of things.Doesn't make it more comforting, but we do understand it."
" But you said that the gauntlet doesn't keep them out."
" Well, yes and no." He said warming to the topic. " Did the Gauntlet allways
exist?"
" No. Not so far as I know. The Conventions created it."
" Actually that's not true, the Conventions merely altered and strengthened an
existing phenomena. But the Gauntlet didn't allways exist in the form it is
now. The Outsiders
have dwelt outside for millenia, like a hungry panther leaning against a screen
door."
" So what kept them out?"
" Gaia has an immune system."
"What?"
"Actually, the triat has it's own immune system. The Wyld creates life and
gives it a drive to live and a mechanism to fight infections, The Wyrm
originaly was meant to act as a balancing factor to control unchecked growth,
and the Weaver has an immune system that protects it's ordered forms. Have you
ever noticed that cities rarely crumble into nothing? Have you ever noticed
that logical systems grow and mutate to environmental factors? Have you ever
noticed that once someone thinks something that it is really hard to un-think
it?"
" So you're saying that the universe is one big organism, and that the triat is
it's regulatory system?"
"Sorta."
"And Gaia is an organism too. Like a bacteria?"
" Well, No. At least I hope not. Perhaps it would be more correct to say that
each of those planets and stars out there represents an organism and that the
universe is an ecosystem of some sort."
"Hmmm." Rueben scratched his head. " So...Gaia is an organism and it has it's
own immune system. How is that different from the Gauntlet. The gauntlet acts
as a semi-permiable membrane that keep infections out."
" Yes,but that's not the whole of the immune system. Think Holistic. If you
caught a deadly infection every time your skin was pierced you wouldn't survive
out of childhood. What about viruses and bacteria that infect through contact
or airborne vectors. The gauntlet is just a part of larger integral system."
" O.K....I take your point." Sam had a particular gift for putting things in
the language that the listener understood. It was gratifying to watch it at
work, and occasionally amusing.
" I'll give you an example." He continued. " Consider the Garou..."
"Do I have to?"
"Shhh....The garou consider themselves to be the immune system of Gaia and in a
way they are a part of it."
" They are like phagocytes,"
"Hmmm?"
" Those are cells that hunt down and devour infections. only they aren't
exactly discriminate about killing healthy cells around them."
" Well, that's an indelicate but apt analogy."
"What else?"
"The Caerns and Nodes are also a part of it."
" Umm, you lost me there I think."
" Think Holistic. Gaia recieves sustenance from the sun yes?"
"Yes."
"And this energy is cycled through the wyld and made into people and things. We
call it prime, yes?"
" Right, energy+matter = work."
" Now,  in nearly every kind of reaction like this, there is allways waste
materials. Biological system are no exceptions. So what cleans Gaia's body of
waste and fatigue poisons and other toxins"
" Umm. The regulatory systems? The endocrines? The Circulatory systems? The
liver? The Digestive tracts? Help me. I'm shooting in the dark."
" All of them. The nodes and ley lines of this world act as the meridians of
the human body. There is a natural renewable cycle to Gaia as any Garou will
happilly tell you.
It's only when these outlets are blocked as the Technocrats do or tainted as
the Nephandi would have it, that you run into the problems we are having
today."
" Are you saying that Gaia is sick?"
Sam became very serious. " What I'm saying... is that Gaia has aids."
Rueben's eyes got very big. "What do you mean by that?"
" What I mean is... that the technocracy has blocked enough or destroyed enough
of Gaia's immune system that it's started to eat itself. The gauntlet holds
like a skin around this world and the cities are like big callouses, The
ecology gets worse,
the changing breeds fight amongst themselves, There are climate changes and the
weirdest weather in decades. Don't even get me started on all the polutants in
the drinking water and preservatives in the food.We may not have insanity from
lead poisoning from the lead pipes like the Romans did, but we have
arsenides,heavy metals and fluoride in all the tap water. You know some of this
and its long term effect."
  " I know that a lot of foods have uneccessary preservatives, and that a
number of maladies that people are suffering from nowadays are the direct
result of extending the human lifespan. I know that the frogs are dying off....
But are these really signs of the end times?"
 Sam thought for a long time. " Maybe. I don't know.... All I know is that Gaia
has a fever and is thrashing in her sleep."
" And it's up to us to treat the symptoms, until her immune system can
recover."
" No...That's not enough. We've got to kill the diseases ourselves. The immune
system is eating itself. For instance it used to be that their were spirits
that regulated the ebb and flow of prime and reality. Do you know what we call
them now?"
"No."
" Paradox spirits."
"Get out of town!"
" I'm entirely serious.When a mage does something big, Gaia reacts, either the
mage feels a measure of her pain or her delirium and if this doesn't work. the
Spirits come out and encyst the offending mage in a paradox realm. This is why
paradox spirits will allways attack nephandi first and marauders second and the
rest of us last. Nephandi are particularly virulent cancers and open up the
body to more external infection, Marauders are a form of runaway unstable cell
growth that eventually will endanger the organism.Gaia can't actually touch
them so she has to shunt them out of this reality. That's the only reason why
this planet isn't one big marauder playground. Only the one who can work like
us can stay here. even if it's only temporary."
" I get it. So the reason why we have to build horizon realms and do major
workings in the umbra is in order to preserve the organisms equalibrium."
" Exactly so. I'll make a Dreamspeaker of you yet. Horizon realms are a lot
like tattoos. Part of the organism ,and yet, not really part of the organism.
Part of the skin...sort of."
"Shit."
They sat facing one another. Rueben's face got angrier and angrier.
" I'm sorry."
" I don't blame you. you left,remember."
"Someone should do something...I should do something." He rose unsteadily to
his feet.
" Whoa. Slow down there cowboy. attempting to save the world on a beer buzz is
not one of your better plans."
" Well then what do you suggest I do?" Rueben demanded angrily.
" Only what you can." Sam caught and held his gaze. " Some of these problems
are centuries if not millenia old and they aren't going away tonight. All we
can do is what we can...and every once in a while, stop and look and remember
what it is we are fighting for. See that sky. See that water. See this city.
Cherish it....it may not be here tomorrow. We may see signs of doom but that
doesn't mean we have to get depressed about it or stop trying to do something
about it. either. Lighten up Rueben. Hell. we stopped a major influenza today"
Rueben sat down again and looked out at the Hudson. He could see barges...it
cheered him obscurely.
" Are you going to eat your  turkey sandwhich or not?"
"O.K. Sam....But I don't feel like talking."
Fair enough."



Kinesys@hotmail.com (from Reverend Kinesis's upcoming book
Tips for weirdos.
Tip number 4:
A bible and an amway sales pitch should be kept by the phone
to discourage obscene phone callers,telemarketers,
bill collectors, and yes, even occasionally... family.

---------------------------------------------------------
Get Your *Web-Based* Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
---------------------------------------------------------

