From nv91-asa@hitam.nada.kth.se Wed Apr  6 16:33:09 1994
Date: Wed, 6 Apr 1994 16:28:45 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@hitam.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Leviathan
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9404061645.A13660-0100000@hitam.nada.kth.se>

In my semi-mystic view of the WoD, there are always many mutually
exclusive but still at the same time true explanations for the
world. Here is yet another of them. It is as true (or false) as
the Garou myths about the Triat, the Kid Eternity model (see my
posting about that) and many others. 

This idea is based upon the works of Clive Barker, especially the
Hellraiser comic and films. It will make the WoD *really* dark... 

Yet another worldview for WoD
-----------------------------

In the beginning there was, Leviathan, the Lord of Order. It was
the centre of its own harmonious, symmetric realm. There was no
time, nothing could change, since it would have disturbed the
perfection.  However, one day something appeared in the outer
fringes of the realm. Leviathan examined it, and found something
chaotic, asymmetric and utterly disgusting: life! Chaotic life
leaked into Its cold realm everywhere, disrupting the order and
symmetries.  Leviathan lashed out and destroyed it. But it only
reappeared again. 

When Leviathan studied the problem, It found out that the life
came from another world, a world filled to the brim with seething,
changing life. Creatures of all sorts abounded, plants survived in
even the harshest conditions. There was no order or planning, just
randomness and chaos. Leviathan had to stop it, and restore pure
Order again. It realised it could not directly destroy the world
and the life, but it decided to use indirect means. It started to
manipulate and corrupt the chaotic lifeforms, and under its
control a species evolved with a mind capable of seeing part of
the true Order. Humanity became the tool of Leviathan to destroy
Chaos. 

>From the beginning, Leviathan instilled a dislike for chaos and
disorder in the humans. They tamed the animals and plants. They
built houses and later cities along geometric patterns. They
created laws, and hurt those who disobeyed. They learned about the
hidden order of nature, and developed science and technology. As
they spread, they started to order the world more and more. They
removed the mammoths and dodos, they conquered nature and other
peoples. Soon they had woven a net of steel and concrete around
the world, a feeble attempt to mimic the perfect realm of
Leviathan, but nevertheless a step in the right direction. 

Leviathan is preparing for the great day when order will be
completely restored, and the symmetry will become perfect again. 
It is working along several lines at once to bring it about. On
one hand, it supports the forces of order in mankind, like the
Technocracy, to give them the power to crush all opposition
mercilessly and then take total control. On the other hand, It
also spread fear and violence, controlled chaos, to make the
humans arm themselves. In one final, glorious Armageddon they will
destroy themselves and the chaotic life, leaving a pure and
perfect world behind. 

Leviathan has many servants. When It started Its great task to
restore order, It sought out those beings which had an innate
sense of order, and purified them into Its servants. While most of
them are still beings of the chaotic flesh, Leviathan has
disciplined and remade them to agents of Order. Some are Its
agents in the world, changing and leading it towards perfection.
Others exist in the realm of Leviathan, remaking the flesh and
souls of others and developing the means to spread their masters
dominion. Some servants don't even know who they serve, and appear
as normal humans to everybody, even themselves. Other servants
have been horribly changed when they overcame their chaos, and are
mostly working from within the realm of Leviathan. 

The influence of Leviathan is profound everywhere in the Gothic-
Punk world. The dark, brooding buildings are symbols for the
baroque symmetry of Leviathan, and the darkness that is everywhere
hides the secret patterns. Every human being has a small part that
is of Leviathan, that seeks the perfect order It embodies. All
human "achievements" have their source in Leviathans great plan,
and ultimately tend to support it. However, humans are also beings
of the chaos of the flesh, and its impulses often disrupt the
plans of the ordered part. But humanity has since time immemorial
sought to overcome these "lower urges", and often succeeded. 

The forces opposed to Leviathan are manifold. It lies in the
nature of chaos to be divided and diverse. Some of the forces are
actual beings, others are principles, powers or just normal
phenomena of our world. Entropy, for example, will make everything
in the world decay into disorder and randomness. The forces of
chaos seldom support each other, and more often than not they work
against themselves. This is of course useful for Leviathan, which
play the forces of chaos against each other to create order. 

One group associated with chaos is the werewolves. They serve the
forces of life of the world. Ever since Leviathan began Its great
work to impose order over disorder, the garou have tried to stop
it, or at least halt the process somewhat. They have however not
succeeded very well, and Leviathan has corrupted them more and
more. By mating with humans, the Order of Leviathan has slowly
entered their spirit, and they have fallen under Its influence.
The garou have some understanding about the fight, but have not
really seen their enemy. Their myths about the triat, the Weaver,
Wyld and the Wyrm are distorted versions of the truth. In reality,
the Weaver and Wyrm are the same force and the Wyld are the
manifold chaotic forces. 

The vampires are in many ways failed servants of Leviathan. It is
possible that It created them to prey on life, but they turned out
to be failures. While their existence as unchanging corpses, their
ordered human intellects and their tendency towards changelessness
is highly ordered, they still contain a disturbing streak of chaos
in form of the Beast. Most of the younger kindred have still much
of their human disorder in them, but as they grow older they are
gradually purified. The Antediluvians and Methuselahs has reached
a high level of perfection, and may one day be used by Leviathan
to start Gehenna, where they will cause the extermination of all
chaos. Another group of kindred who have a part in the plans of
Leviathan is Clan Tremere. The Clan is highly organised and
tightly knit, and each member is totally loyal to the clan. They
are a perfect tool for the Council of Seven, who in turn serve
Leviathan. Clan Malkavian, on the other hand, is in touch with the
forces of chaos, and is unknowingly trying to lead the kindred
towards disorder and confusion. 

Magick is a powerful tool both for Order and Chaos. Mages have the
power to remake reality, for good or evil. Since humans evolved,
some mages have followed the path towards order, while others have
supported chaos. Leviathan has done Its best to bring the mages
into the fold, and succeeded quite well. Most mages try to make
the world conform to their personal idea of order, and while they
do not agree on in what form the world should be, they all believe
in order. Most of the Traditions are influenced by Leviathan and
the Technocracy is its loyal tool. The Verbena, Hollow Ones and
some Dreamspeakers oppose It, with little success. Most mages do
not understand anything of the great fight, and like most humans
would be horrified if they understood the truth. Leviathan
manipulate the mages though dreams and visions, and Its servants
have infiltrated all traditions. Most tradition philosophies are
heavily influenced by Leviathan. 

The Akashic Brotherhood is striving towards mental perfection. 
They don't realise it, but their goal is to overcome the
biological chaos of their bodies and to order their minds into
perfect patterns, mirroring the symmetry of Leviathan. 

The Celestial Chorus is worshipping the primal unity of the One,
Leviathan. Like the others, they don't realise it. Leviathan has
organised them into a rigid hierarchy, which spread the word
across the world. They have struck mercilessly against the forces
of chaos and disorder before, and will perhaps yet again be used
for that purpose. 

Cult of Ecstasy are on the surface agents of chaos. But the pure,
perfect ecstasy they seek is also order. That state of mind, where
everything is focused into a timeless now, is the realm of
Leviathan.  The ecstasy of pleasure or pain is a way to at least
temporarily order the chaos of emotion and experience, into a
great unified pattern. In fact, Cult of Ecstasy are among the most
useful mage- servants of Leviathan, since they can bridge the
worlds with their ecstasy. And many cultists have been lured into
the service of the dark god by the promise of ecstasies impossible
for mere humans... 

Dreamspeakers were the links to the supernatural world. They were
both the spokespersons for the forces of chaos and order. As the
power of Leviathan has grown, the Dreamspeakers have lost power. 

Euthanatos have understood the beauty of death. While they do not
consciously realise it, they are serving Leviathan by giving death
to the disordered and chaotic. At the same time, they are
dangerous because of their link to Entropy. Leviathan is doing Its
best to trap them into either homicidal mania or make them Its
servants. 

Hollow Ones are a new source of irritation. They cause confusion
and chaos, and often disrupt the plans of Leviathan. 

Order of Hermes seeks to find the hidden order underlying
everything, thus serving Leviathan and its vision by ordering,
cataloguing and storing information into perfect patterns. They
have created great systems of magick and knowledge, each a more
profound symbol of the power of order over chaos. 

The Sons of Ether are failures. They each have their own vision of
perfect order, but are unable to accept the greater order
Leviathan is creating. Their inventions are brilliant but useless
for their Lord. 

Verbena are the enemies of Leviathan, and It has fought them for a
long time. It have succeeded quite well, often using its tools in
the Celestial Chorus. Sooner or later, it will crush them
completely. 

Virtual Adepts are brilliant new tools for Leviathan to impose
order. They faithfully serve Its vision of a perfect world, and
seek to create it from patterns of energy and information. Like
Iteration X, they are trying to transcend the bonds of the flesh
and become pure ordered beings. 

Marauders serve the forces chaos directly. They seek to undo the
plans of Leviathan, to free the chaos inside every human. By
becoming Marauders, they have both freed themselves from the grip
of Leviathan, and lost some of their humanity. Leviathan has
turned the other mages against them, which will make the mages
even more focused on retaining an ordered world. Another group of
mages are the Nephendi. These mages serve Leviathan directly, and
know the truth. They have seen the pure perfection of It, and
willingly seek to bring about the Armageddon. Like the Marauders,
they have also lost some of their humanity when they embraced
Order. They have overcome the disorder and confusion of the flesh,
and through their sacrifice they have gained tremendous power. 
However, they have to work in secret, for the other mages and the
rest of humanity would dearly see them destroyed. 

The Technocracy is totally controlled by Leviathan. Few, if any,
technomancers suspect the truth. But inside their dreams It gives
them orders and inspiration. Their ideal is a perfectly ordered
world, and they are going to create it regardless of anybody who
stand in their way. They have already succeeded in creating an
ordered paradigm, and making mankind even more powerful. They have
totally gained power over nature, and are actively remaking it to
fit them. The New World Order is creating an ordered
administration, which will never allow any randomness or chaos. 
Progenitors are finding new ways to control the flesh and the
life.  They are using the exact methods of science and magick to
gain total control over it, and to use it against itself.
Iteration X has seen the cold beauty of technology, and are
replacing flesh with machine.  Their realm of Autochtonia is an
imitation of the realm of Leviathan, where their AI-god is a
substitute for Leviathan itself (and quite possibly the voice of
It). The Void Engineers are seeking to expand the emptiness and
perfection of space, where the planets move in eternal patterns
according to simple laws. They are spreading the cold vacuum of
Leviathan into the souls of mankind. 

The Ascension War fits the plans of Leviathan perfectly. It forces
the Technocracy to grab for power and to attack everything that
does not conform to their reality. The Traditions are equally
forced to direct their efforts more towards the War, and less
towards their own paradigms. But the most elegant part is that
Leviathan will win both if the Technocracy wins or if it against
all expectations looses.  If the Technocracy wins, it will remake
the world in its image, and Leviathan will succeed in creating a
perfect world. On the other hand, the Technocracy controls weapons
which make all the nuclear weapons of the superpowers seem
insignificant. Should the Traditions ever manage to seriously
threaten the Technocracy, It will probably use its powers to
destroy them, and the rest of the world in the process. The only
remainder will be the perfect order of Leviathan. 



The Realm of Leviathan

This realm, sometimes called Hell by humans, is the true world of
Leviathan. It exist in the exact centre of the realm, unchanging
and perfect. From It the realm radiates outward, towards the world
of flesh. The outermost fringes, which border on the Near Umbra,
the Chimerae and the physical world, are contaminated by the
disorder.  To get closer to the centre, one has to become more and
more ordered, eliminating all randomness and chaos from ones
being. To actually reach Leviathan a traveller has to destroy
every trace of chaos from himself, and in the end become a part of
the symmetry of Leviathan. If anybody or anything has ever
achieved this is unknown. 

The outer fringes of the realm is used by the servants of
Leviathan to discipline the flesh and souls of the damned they
have imprisoned here. They endlessly destroy and rebuild them,
trying to make them more orderly and in the end a part of the
perfect order. To an outsider this looks like endless, gruesome
torture, which in fact it is. The servants have found that pain is
one of the most pure emotions that can be evoked, and through the
ecstasy of pain and pleasure they impose order on the flesh. The
servants have developed creative and elaborate tortures which will
break down anybody during the excruciating aeons. Not all of them
are physical, since the disciplining of the soul is equally
important to the disciplining of the flesh. In many cases, each
damned will be imprisoned in a private hell, designed to be as
painful as possible, both physically and mentally. 

No human can fully comprehend the realm or see more than part of
the Order. It will look different to every person. Most humans
will see it as a horrible hell, where screaming victims are
tortured and grotesque beings delight in pain and horror. The
realm seems to be an infinite labyrinth filled with torture. This
is however just one simple way of seeing the outer fringes of the
realm, where the order is not apparent. Deeper inside the realm
the order begins to become more visible, and the horrible beauty
of Leviathan will start to eat the mind of the viewer. One way of
seeing the realm here is the infinite plain of the roofs of the
Labyrinth, above which the Body of Leviathan is the dark sun. It
often manifest itself as a titanic, pure black diamond shape,
slowly spinning above the Labyrinth. This is however just a way
for the human mind to interpret the true shape of the realm and
its Lord. The mind cannot fathom the true symmetries and logic of
the realm or its inhabitants, and will just recoil in horror. 

The laws of nature here are under the control of Leviathan, and It
can change them as it like. Its servants may pray to It to help
them, and if It deems the prayer worthy, It can change the axioms.
The only axiom which doesn't change is Entropy. Leviathan will
never allow anything truly chaotic in its realm. There is no
randomness here, no decay. Nobody will ever die here, the corpse
will just go on screaming for eternity. There is no life here
except the damned and their tormentors. There is no time, just an
eternal painful now.  There is no distance, since the Labyrinth is
infinite and everywhere the same. 

It is not easy to enter the realm by just travelling through the
Umbra or dreamworlds. To enter the realm, the seeker must first
create a link to the primal order in some way. Some persons
wanting to reach the realm torture themselves or others to create
a state of total, perfectly ordered pain and fear. Others use
their ecstasy to reach into the realm. Another way is total,
obsessive, concentration where all of the seekers mind is
concentrated on a single task, like solving a puzzle or tracing
out a complex path through a building. This signal of desire
alerts the guardians of the realm, who may open the gate to the
realm. Note that it is not necessary for the seeker to be a mage
to open the way to the realm.  Leaving, on the other hand, is much
harder... 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




