From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Sun Apr  3 20:23:07 1997
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from pop.uky.edu (pop.uky.edu [128.163.1.174])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.8.4/8.8.4) with ESMTP
	id UAA05626 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Thu, 3 Apr 1997 20:23:03 +0200 (MET DST)
Received: from 128.163.116.123 ([128.163.116.123])
          by pop.uky.edu (8.8.4/(UKY.POP.1.4)) with SMTP
	  id NAA21217 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>; Thu, 3 Apr 1997 13:22:51 -0500 (EST)
Message-ID: <3343E76A.5CA6@hotmail.com>
Date: Thu, 03 Apr 1997 13:22:50 -0400
From: pete sears <Kinesys@hotmail.com>
X-Mailer: Mozilla 2.02 (Macintosh; I; 68K)
MIME-Version: 1.0
To: nv91-asa@nada.kth.se
Subject: mathoms
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit

Mathoms,Tchochkes,Commodities and Stuff. A look at the Bartering 
system of Mage
By Reverend X.S. Kinesys.

    Now I'm no economist, But it seems to me that there is a very 
different sort of system for dealing with supply and demand in the 
Mage world. My mage could offer you money for something but if you¹ve 
got enough Matter magick you could make it yourself. Ditto for gold 
and gems and other forms of monetary standard in the sleeper world. 
Syndicate mages are really the only ones who fool with that stuff and 
only to purchase power...
   I am reminded of issues of Hellblazer,past and present, where it 
seems that John Constantine must work full time in order to accumulate 
all the mystic junk and favors
that inevitably get his ass out of the current sling it's in. So it 
seems that there must be some sort of system for dealing with getting 
what you want if you don¹t have the skills
or power for various things.

Favors:
One of the more common forms of barter among mages who know one 
another only casually. Favor brokering can be very usefull when 
powerfull enemies come looking for you and discover that an entire 
contingent of mages has turned out to protect you,either because they 
owe you or you owe THEM.
  As a game master it also behooves you to put Players in debt to 
other mages with the old "favor to named later" trick if they want 
certain things from N.P.C.'s. The formality of the favor trading 
depends on the people involved. Hermetics and syndicate mages
tend to be very formal as do Progenitors and Iterators. Virtuals do 
favors very easily for one another but are very costly to others. 
Verbena will do favors but often expect a threefold return on their 
investment. Cultists may forget that they owe you or that you owe 
them...( I said I'd do that? man...I must have been really stoned.)
   This tendency towards favor trading is also usefull in dealing with 
other supernatural beings as many have similar systems of trading 
among themselves and some can even be trusted to deliver on their 
promises. ( dealing in favors with Vampires and Wraiths is allways 
risky, But dealing with Gypsies and Garou is almost allways done on 
the basis of honor and mutual respect,(if you can get  them to respect 
you.)with Changeling and Humans it's a crapshoot.)
  Unlike the Vampiric system of Prestation, most mage favors are not 
ordinarily transferrable. The only exception to this might be saving 
the life of a mage who is the student of a more powerfull mage. this 
might incur an obligation from both of them.
   
Tass:
This is the closest analog to a monetary system that Mage has. It is 
finite,valueable, not widely available unless you have prime 5 and has 
a multitude of uses. Tass is storable and when refined, non-volatile.( 
i.e. it won't just bleed into surrounding patterns after a 
month.Quintessence banking can be a very smart thing to do.) It can be 
used to make things and events,and large amounts of it are good for 
making talismans and fetishes. it also is usefull for building and 
shoring up horizon realms. making it a versatile commodity. Horizon 
Mages have an actual monetary system and a Tax system based on Tass.

Talismans:
Because of the difficulty involved in making these things and the 
large Tass expenditure that must accompany them, it is rare for these 
things to be traded on an open market. and almost never outside of the 
tradition that they were made for...But it is not unheard of. and it¹s 
certainly not impossible.Talismans are nigh on to indestructible and 
as such their are still talismans floating about that date back to 
prehistory.

Fetishes:
Even more rarely traded than talismans because they have personalities 
and wills of their own. Dreamspeakers have been known to trade things 
among themselves but only among those they absolutely trust.( and even 
then it¹s usually a case of, " I think you are meant to carry this 
now. What will you give me in return?")  Talens on the other
hand are a whole different story,because of their impermanent nature. 
There are a few Dreamspeakers and a few Etherites who can do a brisk 
business in these things.

Books:
What does one do with their copy of Unausprechlichen Kulten when one 
has read it a few times? Tome tend to be a finite resource and when 
exhausted are usefull for barter. A few hermetics and virtuals in my 
campaigns have taken to collecting hard to find books of the Art and 
translating them into C.D.rom or optical disk format (complete with a 
graphics package for pictures and diagrams.) They do a brisk business 
in books on all kinds of matters and can translate these works into 
all sorts of different languages.
     Some books of course are too dangerous to fall into the wrong 
hands and thus are not widely available.Translations of the 
Necronomicon are as common as dirt but complete translations are much 
more scarce. Many technocratic Texts  are considered "classified" and 
have dire consequences for those caught with them. Even some books
that are available are incomplete or hard to find outside of a 
particular tradition or convention.
  As a result,there is a brisk black market in stolen books, and the 
various feuds that have started over this have caused untold damage to 
Tradition mage unity. Some Hermetic mage gets pissed at some Chorus 
mage who denies him access to some
precious tome, so he hires some Orphan to steal it for him, but then 
gets double crossed by that Orphan who sells it for big money to a 
disguised Nephandi and all burning hell breaks loose as the mages 
throttle one another while Nephandi summon
great Cthulhu from the depths.
    Also note, that not all mystick texts are in Magi libraries. there 
are large number of mystick texts in the hands of Gypsies,Mummies, 
hedge magi, tremere,tzimisces,uktena and the Arcanum.

"Mundane" materials:
   There is a market for certain types of mundane articles in the Mage 
world. These articles tends to be valued for their craftsmanship, 
utility and/or half a dozen other factors. a list of possibilities 
follows:
1) a suit of clothing that protects like armor.( an etheric mage with 
high levels of matter is allways in demand for these items.
2) Precision crafted custom built weapons.(etherics tend toward guns 
while akashics and euthanatos tend toward more archaic weapons.)
3) Trinary computers
4) "blessed items" (get in debt to a dreamspeaker or a chorus 
mage,your choice.)
5) Personal articles from other supernatural beings or other mages, 
and/or the contract theft of same.
6) Explosives and/or other chemical compounds.
7) Nuclear material.
8) highly technical electronics
9) Drugs(it just safer to go find a cultist than to try to synthesize 
it yourself.)
10) Not easily created Matter. (meteoric steel for example...)

Services:
Aside from passing out boons("the bearer of this certificate is 
entitled to one(1) Boon upon redemption.") Some mages further their 
personal economy and/or personal influence by providing certain 
services to the mage community at large.
    Akashic mages have been known to be some of the best trainers in 
unarmed combat and some forms of melee combat as well. They won't 
teach you Do... but they can teach you practically any form of martial 
art you could name. Some very young Akashic brothers hire themselves 
out as bodyguards and some provide tutelage
in spirit lore,feng shui,Zen arts, and  asian languages
    Celestial mages often get very hard-nosed about manipulating 
prime(for chantries and talismans) and the creation of talismans and 
other "Blessed" items, but often offer their most important service 
for free...Spiritual counseling. And it is for precisely this reason 
that they hold the influence they do. Many a mage has been turned from 
the path of Descent because of a long talk with a celestial mage.
     Ecstatic mages are often consulted for divinations(they ain't 
allways believed,but that's the Cassandra Syndrome for you...) but one 
of their most overlooked services is in the area of Party Organizing. 
(they know all the best bands,they can lay hands on any "Refreshments" 
you require. They know when to break out the food or the Mad-Libs and 
they know when and who will crash.)
    Dreamspeakers look upon their work as a sacred trust and thus 
might look at payment for their services as an insult...but you can 
never tell. They might not produce much in terms of materials or books 
but when you want to increase your circle of spiritual contacts, need 
a liason to a group of shapechangers or need an expirienced umbral 
guide, you will find none better.
   Euthanatoi often enjoy a wide panoply of skills that make for great 
services. They are second only to the Ecstatics when dealing with 
divinations. They know the Shadow-lands like the Dreamspeakers know 
the rest of the umbra,and they have extensive knowledge of martial 
arts,weapons of all types,poisons,and explosives. It is however a good 
idea NOT to assume that all Euthanatos perform Assasinations for hire. 
Some like it, some don't care...but some consider it the ultimate form 
of blasphemy.
   Hermetics are known for their abilities with languages,complex math 
and ciphers. those who are computer savvy are usually every bit in 
demand as a virtual adept. there are no finer people to consult when 
dealing with a problem that will only yield to research and their 
libraries still dwarf those of the virtuals. They will even provide a 
written estimate for payment and a service contract.
     Etheric Mages are of course the logical choice for technically 
oriented services but most mages overlook their ability to do 
laboratory analysis of materials and their absolute genius at stress 
testing
     Verbena are known far and wide for their life oriented services. 
These include trauma care but can also include acting as a mages 
personal physician, pediatric care, Mid-wifing,veterinary care, 
"Potion" making and other apothecarial services. tutoring in herb lore 
and even, acting as a personal trainer. Beyond this the verbena are 
also skilled in divinations and manipulate weather even better than 
the hermetics.
    Virtual will allways be able to get work whether in the fields of 
cryptography, intrusions for hire, Security services and manipulation 
of all sorts of information.


Think that the Technocrats aren't going to play these reindeer games? 
Guess again buddy? Many technocrats of course deal amongst themselves 
and there are not a few of them that also deal with other mages. There 
are, of course, two rules for dealing with technocracy mages. 1) don't 
get caught. and 2) don't get screwed.
   Progenitor services are allways in high demand, and they aim to 
keep it that way.
Clone bodies are a form of currency to them and they spend freely with 
their Technocratic brethren as well as with any tradition mage stupid 
enough to be duped into it. They also act as the Technocracy's H.M.O. 
and tend the ill,infirm,and hopelessly shattered among the 
technocratic patients. Their other field of expertise lies in the area
of "pets" and other watch creatures and they do a booming business in 
this field.
    Iterator Mages might seem to be outside this loop but they aren't 
really. They often exchange muscle and drudgework for needed services 
of their fellows. It is a well known truism that iterators will often 
do dreary and dangerous work that would bore the shit out of any other 
type of mage.They provide other conventions with their version
of high tech gear and are often the ones to consult when one needs to 
increase efficiency in some group or process.(it pretty much goes 
without saying that most iterators will not deal with the tradition 
mages.)
    Order mages are great to have when you have to jump through some 
sort of bureaucratic hoops. Need spies? They got them. Need to have a 
friend surreptitiously sprung from Mecha? Better bring quite a bit to 
the table. Need to have your records erased or altered? You might have 
to talk to these guys.
    Void mages deal in transport...pure and simple. They can get you 
there, and maybe even back. Just don't piss them off or they might 
read their poetry at you... Void Mages might be the only real outlet 
of Technocracy tech that trad mages can get their mitts on
and because they travel so far and wide, they are likely to have 
access to the weirdest collection of things imaginable.
    Syndicate mages?....Well, they'll deal with anybody, even 
Nephandi. It's all part of their ethic.("Do the Job!") If you want 
anything that the normal world can provide including wealth,fame,or 
power...talk to a syndicate mage.they can get it for you wholesale. It 
is not unusual to find syndicate mages blind brokering sales of 
magickal articles between groups of tradition mages. They are allways 
on the lookout for talent and unique skills and if you aren't 
carefull,you could end up working for them full time without really 
realizing it....Just don't get caught. The Syndicate will hire or deal 
with anybody but the whole time they will be gathering information 
about you, on the off chance that the Order mages find out.(they still 
take a dim view of this sort of thing.)
 They will throw you to the Order and go back to business as usual.

    While a form of Maruader economics is not impossible...thinking 
about such is liable to make my head bleed. But the possibility of 
dealing with Nephandi is not to be discounted... Oh I know, in the 
stark light of day its very easy to say "Never! No! A thousand times 
NO!" but that's not when they are going to come around.
   Are you a Hermetic or a Virtual or an Ether Mage? Chances are, you 
are lonely, very lonely....what would you give to meet your true soul 
mate? Surely not your SOUL of course, but I'm sure that we can come to 
an arrangement...
   Are you a Verbena or a Dreamspeaker or a Euthanatos? Then you are 
probably frustrated that the holy work isn't going as well as it 
should...and maybe our goals and yours aren't that far apart...
   Are you an Akashic or Celestial mage? Are you seeking inner peace? 
Peace comes from satisfaction...and we deal in satisfaction.
   Are you an Ecstatic or a Hollow one? Hey! let's party. you folks 
really have no idea what feeling good is all about...yet.
   Are you a technocrat? I think if you look, you will find that we 
allready own you....
   Are you terminal? We can fix that. Have you ever lost a loved one? 
We can get them back for you. Have you ever lusted? Hey! no problem. 
Have you ever thirsted for vengeance or for power? Step right up.
   Price? ...well....let's discuss that later.

Nodes:
Trading Nodes on the Open market? Are you nuts? Well...you pretty much 
have to have some kind of personal relationship with all the 
principles involved and may have to do quite a bit of negotiation. 
This could happen in the case of a cabal doing a bunch of drudgework 
for a chantry that has just come into possesion of a much larger node 
and is looking to trade their much smaller node for something 
valueable. Please note that most nodes are not portable and might 
involve a bit of real estate. The size of the node is not going to be 
over a 2 and you should try to read the fine print of any contract you 
sign.( a cabal of mages once ended up signing themselves into a 
contract for service with a hermetic chantry for 20 years for a level 
1 node...needless to say, they were not happy.)

Other Stuff:
which includes hedge magickal materials( which might still be usefull 
to the very low powered mage.) 
Thaumaturgical magickal items.(many of which will function with the 
use of human blood.)  
Thaumaturgically warded items.( any article that can have ward 
vs.ghouls,kindred, garou, or spirits cast on it can be in demand to 
the low powered and the tremere do a brisk business in them.) 
Mummy amulets and Potions(can't be beat for rarity. and very usefull.)
Wraith fetters( Caveat Magi )
Gypsy Draba( useless to mages,but a possible trade good to gypsies. 
just make sure they keep their hands in their pockets at all times.) 
Changeling treasures(same as above)
Pieces of angels,demons,bygones and other suchlike.(multiple magickal 
uses and also renderable for tass.) 
Holy relics (usefull to chorus mages and inquisitors alike.) 
Tractable and/or trainable pets(ranging from anything to a good smart 
dog,to a spirit, to a gargoyle,to an bygone critter.)  
Slaves( You can decide how sticky you want to get your soul.but the 
slave trade still exist in parts of the real world.)
"Gatherables"( which include any kind of article that is found in 
nature that is or can be magickally usefull. I.E. plants,sacrificial 
animals,and stones of various types.)
and of course, Towels.(if you are going to travel the umbra,it's a 
good idea to know where your towel is.

This exercise in relentless capitalism has been brought to you by...
Kinesys@hotmail.com (home of Reverend Kinesys)
I am a thirty second Bomb...

