From nv91-asa@eufrat.nada.kth.se Fri Aug 19 10:56:42 1994
Date: Fri, 19 Aug 1994 10:49:06 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@eufrat.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Matter Rotes
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9408191006.A12119-0100000@eufrat.nada.kth.se>

Matter Rotes


Patternweave (Matter 1)

The mage can see a disassembled or shattered object in its
whole form or as it should be. Cult of Ecstasy use to
reflect the image of the parts in their ring, and see the
whole in the reflection. Sons of Ether just measure things
with their meters, while Choristers touch the parts, seeing
how they should fit together. 
[Each success will give one extra dice in repairing or
building the object.  Very useful for furniture from IKEA.]


Awaken the Spirits of matter (Matter 1 Spirit 2)

Dreamspeakers sometimes want to communicate with the
elementals living in material objects. They tickle the
object with their feather and beats their drums to awaken
the sleepy spirits. If it succeeds the spirits awaken, and
the mage can talk with them. The spirits of normal objects
are often rather simpleminded and fairly powerless, but
generally very knowledgeable about the nature and use of
the object. Some objects can have fairly wilful and
powerful spirits, like certain cars or buildings. 


Horn of the Unicorn (Matter 1 Life 1)

An old hermetic rote to find out if food or drink would be
harmful (poisoned, spoiled or very unhealthy). The mage
draws a pentagram over the food, while naming five
revealing spirits. If the food is harmful, the plate or cup
will shudder, as if they were revealed. 


The Immaculate Beer (Matter 2 Prime 2)

This popular rote improves beer. It increases alcoholic
content, and gives it a truly heavenly taste. It even seems
to last longer. The beer is almost literally enchanted, and
tends to make people very happy. Unfortunately it also
creates very real hangovers, but that's another problem. 


Growing Gold (Matter 2 Prime 2)

Another gold-creating rote, this one invented by Nicolas
Flanel (The alchemists need much gold to finance their
expensive magick and for use in Prime). Since everything is
alive to some extent according to alchemical doctrine,
metallic gold can be coaxed to grow given the right
nutrients. The mage places a small amount of gold in a
crucible and adds another metal, preferably mercury. The
crucible is heated, and the result is that the gold absorbs
nourishment from the metal and the heat and grows into more
gold. 


Diamonds are Forever (Matter 2 Prime 2)

The mage makes crystals grow out of the air around
something or someone, to trap or imprison. Hermetic mages
use to draw the Hebrew letters yod and ceth with the seal
while chanting the names of the spirits of earth and
matter. Sons of Ether simply direct powerful electric
discharges into the air controlled by their meters, forcing
the ether to crystallise. 


Your own Weight in Gold (Matter 2 Life 4)

This rote was reputedly invented by an ancient sorcerer in
Arabia when confronted with a group of adventurers
demanding payment.  He just turned their skeletons into
pure gold and walked away. The victims of this rote become
extremely heavy, and due to the flexibility of pure gold
their skeletons bend and deform. Most are simply crushed
under their own weight.  Beside this obvious problem,
friends and enemies alike become very interested in their
skeletons... 


Airbag (Time 1 Forces 1 Matter 2 Prime 2)

Desperation is the mother of invention, and this rote was
invented by a Son of Ether who was falling towards an early
death after an early experiment in flying. He managed to
calculate the exact instant he would strike the ground, and
just before the impact he created a large amount of air
between himself and the ground. He survived the fall but
was deafened by the bang. Later mages have experimented
with creating piles of feathers or coincidental mattresses,
but air is still popular. Air can be created during the
fall, creating slowing upwinds. By timing things well, a
mage can land almost soundlessly and with just a weak
breeze. 


Nastyglass (Matter 2 Forces 2 Mind 2 Prime 2)

A weird invention of Daedalus. It is a special type of
glass which modulates light in a very strange way, turning
it irritating to the human mind.  Nothing measurable
changes, except that anything viewed through the glass will
appear ugly, sickly and slightly nauseating. Light sent
through the material will take on a bleak look, and people
often get headaches out of it.  There are rumours that
Daedalus also have developed other types of glass with
positive emotions. 


Nichtmaterie (Matter 3)

By using pattern disassociation a mage can make a material
pattern stop interacting with another type of pattern. This
can be used to create invisible materials, materials living
beings but not air can pass through, weightless matter etc.
But by making *everything* pass through the mage can create
"Nichtmaterie " as it was called by its first inventor,
Professor Hans Grieg of Heidelberg. Nichtmaterie is not
affected by anything, and doesn't affect anything. It
cannot be perceived except by using Prime. It can however
be handled using Matter. Professor Grieg found that it was
a very efficient way of storing things not needed or to
bulky to move; just turn them into Nichtmaterie and turn
them back when needed. A Son of Ether can bring huge
amounts of things with him in Nichtmaterie -form, and then
make them normal when needed. The Professor developed a
Matter/Nichtmaterie -conversion box to do this, creating
almost a literal "bag of holding". He also experimented
with turning living beings into "Nichtleben" and energy
into "Nichtkraft", planning to use it for the creation of a
nichtrealm. However, the good professor recently vanished
completely. 


Clean Without Water (Matter 3)

This rote will efficiently clean the mage (or anything
else). Dust and dirt just vanish, leaving everything
spotless. It also adjusts the hair and makes it shiny,
adjusts make-up and does manicure. It of course includes
perfume and deodorant. 


Dancing Toaster (Matter 3)

Virtual Adepts and Sons of Ether manipulate machines using
their computers and instruments. The mage can make machines
and objects to move themselves as if they were alive.
Usually the mage uses the joints and movements the machine
already has, like the joints of a showroom-dummy, a tape
recorder throws out the tapes or a hose slithers forward.
With enough successes the mage can make toasters to dance
and statues to move. Note that the object will only move as
the mage wills it to move, as soon as the mage ends
concentration the effect will end. Some hermetics trap
spirits inside objects to work as guards and sentinels. 

[The number of successes increases the dexterity and
strength of the object.  This will of course be modified
depending on the nature of the affected object. A lift
probably has a good lifting-strength, which the mage only
need to increase. ]


Strength of Steel (Matter 3)

The mage can make something hard as steel without changing
other material properties. This rote can turn a curtain
into a barrier, a piece of string into a cable or a
paper-plane a deadly killing instrument. Sons of Ether
usually perform this rigidity activation by carefully
measuring the material of the object, and slowly
manipulating the readings to suitable levels. 


In the Hand of the Beholder (Matter 3 Correspondence 1)

By altering the material pattern, a mage can change the
colour of an object.  This has been used to paint many
chantries, but can also be used for artistic endeavours.
This rote is very popular among artistically inclined
mages. The mage reaches out with her senses in the
surroundings, and alter the surface of an object to match
them. The result is a painting of the surroundings, perhaps
altered by the mage. This can of course easily be turned
coincidental by simply painting the object. The image
reflects how the mage sees things, and may be rather
subjective or very objective depending on what the mage
sought to effect. It is also dependent on mood, personality
and tradition.  Images created by Order of Hermes tend
towards the baroque, while technomancers create images of
photographic clarity and Akashic Brothers create works with
a definite Asian style. 


Age (Matter 3 Entropy 3)

By carefully applying entropy to the pattern of an object,
the mage can make it age exactly like it would naturally.
Its impossible to tell the difference between the real
thing and the result. This rote is a popular way earn some
quick cash for mages with roomy consciences, who use it to
create "antiques". 


The Ball is Round (Matter 3 Entropy 2 Mind 2)

This rote is used by some of the more sports oriented mages
to make sure their team is going to win. Most mages
consider this cheating, but everybody agree that a match
between two teams with supporting mages is a sight to
behold: random coincidences occur, the weather changes, the
ball bounces in unlikely angles, the players give their
outmost and the public just goes wild. Some of the Virtual
Adepts have used Correspondence to affect the game from
their own living rooms (although this is risky since the
Technocracy monitors all major events). 


Negative Mass Disruption (Matter 5)

One of the most spectacular (and vulgar) Matter effects
developed by the Postulants of Matter. The mage simply
negates the mass of an object. The result is very strange,
as mechanical forces on the object have the opposite effect
from normal. Gravity repels it. Pressure attracts it, while
tension repels it. Normally affected objects fall upwards,
only to hit the ceiling. This pressure causes it to
accelerate even more powerfully upwards, breaking through
the blocking ceiling and vanishing with supersonic speed
into space. This rote also provides a very nasty offensive
trick: the mage simply throws sand or gravel at somebody,
and negates their mass. The gravel will force its way
through the body of the victim, causing horrendous damage. 


Cavorite (Forces 4 Matter 5)

This weird material is created by a chantry of Sons of
Ether in orbit around the moon. It is named after their
founder Cavor, who also invented it (he is now rumoured to
be stranded in Arcadia after some of his early
experiments). It is a material which is impregnable to
gravity, essentially isolating whatever is above it from
gravity. Anything above a cavorite shield will be
weightless. This has some problems, as the atmosphere above
tends to blow into space if it is placed on earth.
Fortunately it can be easily handled, and as long as it is
tilted vertical its fairly harmless. Its quite useful for
building spaceships and other aerospace vehicles. Its exact
composition is a well guarded secret, but it is known to
contain helium in some way. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




