Methuselah, the Wandering Mage

The Wandering Mage is probably the oldest mage still around on 
Earth. He was originally a priest of Marduk in Ur, and reached great 
power. However, he didn't want to die (the Babylonian concept of 
the underworld was rather unpleasant, and far too realistic), and at 
the moment of his death he used his immense strength of spirit to 
move his soul into the body of his new-born grandchild. Since then 
the mage has passed through countless bodies, learning and 
studying for millennia.

The way of his immortality is quite simple. When his body dies, he 
breaks free from the dying shell and his soul is reborn into a new 
body, replacing the old soul. If he has any suitable mortal 
descendant, his body is used (The mage prefers to be male). 
Otherwise he is reborn in an arbitrary baby. For the first years the 
mage remains dormant, just using his magick subconsciously to 
keep the child secure and healthy. The personality of the body is 
merely a mixture between the mageps and the replaced person, 
carefully designed not to attract attention. Around puberty, the 
mage awakens. He will remember all his earlier memories beside 
the new experiences of his body and regain his magickal powers, 
although it will take some time. 

The mage was a conservative person when he lived his first life, 
and it haven't changed. Through the millennia he has seen how 
people repeat the same mistakes, not listening to their elders or 
understanding the old wisdom. He is deeply pessimistic about the 
humans, who somehow manages to become worse and worse all the 
time. He has several times tried to change things, but failed. He has 
repeatedly told people about their errors, and they still persist. He 
is very pessimistic, and usually quite right in his predictions that 
somebody is going to do something stupid.

Due to his extremely long existence, he has naturally acquired great 
knowledge and experience. He has tried almost everything at least 
once, and learned a lot more through his periods as unawakened. 
This has made him an expert on practically all subjects and very 
skilled in most other abilities. He is in a way an extreme jack-of-all-
trades. However, due to his conservatism he isn't as good at modern 
skills unless they are essential. He is a fairly good driver and fine 
marksman, but quite computer-illiterate. He tends to scoff at 
modern science and technology, and prefer tried and tested 
methods. This makes him quite anachronistic in certain areas, but 
he won't admit that. 

His long existence has earned him many enemies. Most enemies are 
of course simply left behind by his deaths, sometimes (but rarely) 
by their hands. But a few has followed him through the millennia. 
The Euthanatos regard him as an outstanding candidate for the final 
Good Death, and many masters tell their pupils to look for him. 
Several spiritual beings have different causes to dislike or hate him, 
most notably the paradox spirits. Several quite powerful paradox 
beings and wraiths follow him, trying to catch his soul when he 
dies. Many of them have followed him for millennia, growing more 
powerful as time goes on. The mage has good reasons for fearing 
the demons of the spirit world, which have sought him for a long 
time.

It is a tribute to Methuselahps skills and wits that he has managed 
to survive this far with these enemies. They only have to catch him 
while he is dying to claim his soul. To avoid this, he keeps a very 
low profile most of the time and is very careful to choose the 
moment of his death precisely. In most cases he commits ritual 
suicide to escape them when they have begun to track him down, 
often timed with the birth of a descendant. He is deeply afraid 
(more than he dares to admit to himself) to actually die when he 
isn't ready or when the demons may have a chance to grab him. 
This is of course what his demons want, so they stealthily pursue 
him and do their best to kill him before he is ready. Should they 
close in on him, Methuselah would not hesitate a moment before 
sacrificing his friends and innocent bystanders to win some time.

One way the mage has to evade the demons is to remain asleep in a 
body, which makes him much harder to track. They of course 
search for his relatives and children and kill them, but often he has 
managed to get some illegitimate children or sent his children 
away. And when he awakens, he sometimes chooses to go back to 
sleep and let the person whose body he is in go on with his life, 
only to re-emerge near the end of it. Its a bit risky, but a very good 
way of evading the demons when they are in the vicinity. Its also 
good if the body isn't to his liking or otherwise unsuitable. The 
people he lives as under these periods of sleep are quite normal 
people, with unassuming lives and no memorable quirks. His 
magick prevents them from falling victim to accidents and will 
awaken him when the demons approach. 

His magick was originally classic Babylonian temple-magick, but his 
methods have become more and more streamlined as his skill have 
developed. Today he usually don't need many foci except when he 
have got time or want to perform something hard. Then he uses 
invocations to the ancient gods, the burning of special incense, 
sacrifices and astrological tables to perform his ceremonies. But this 
is rare, he prefers to use coincidental magick without foci to avoid 
attracting the attention of the spirits.

One area he is a true master in is mental camouflage. He has 
perfected methods to create false personalities to hide beneath, 
invisible mental shields sending false thoughts and emotions to 
mental scans and clever tricks to find out beforehand what mages 
plan to do. One common trick is to create a new personality (almost 
a full person in itself) and let it run things while he is asleep or 
bored. 

However, despite his fantastic erudition, his magick abilities and 
long life, he has strayed far from the path of enlightenment. In the 
beginning, he used his multiple lives to learn the deepest secrets of 
magick. He even studied some time among the Oracles of Mind. But 
he became more and more obsessed with magickal power over the 
world around him, and less and less interested in truly 
understanding himself, the real secret of enlightenment. He rejected 
mysticism as useless balderdash and spent his time devising ever 
more clever ways of evading his pursuers. His Avatar initially tried 
to make him understand, but became more and more dulled by the 
eternal progression of new lives and the steadfast rejection of all 
inner change. Today it is almost as inactive as the avatar of a 
sleeper, despite the great magickal abilities of Methuselah.

Methuselah have some friends. Just like most enemies, most friends 
are left behind by his reincarnations,  but some immortals know 
him. Most of his friends are kindred, and several of his old 
acquaintances are now among the most powerful vampires in the 
world. While he is wary of getting caught in their endless Jyhad 
(which in his opinion shows that not even other immortals learn 
anything from the past, himself excluded of course), he feels some 
kinship to the ancient beings. Despite their personal quirks and 
rampant paranoia, they are among the few beings who really 
understand him (and vice versa). From time to time, when they 
happen to meet, he and the Methuselahs discuss the good old days 
and what is going on in general. That his name has become the term 
for the older kindred is a source of some dry amusement among 
both parts. However, these meetings have a dark undertone of 
mutual wariness. Methuselah is powerful and knowledgeable 
enough to hurt them, and the vampires may be secretly in league 
with the demons.


Methuselah is conservative regarding his appearance. He always 
has a beard, even when it doesn't suit him. He always dresses 
conservatively or outright old-fashioned. He is also carefull not to 
look out of the ordinary, so he at least tries to fit in. 


Essence: Pattern
Nature: Traditionalist
Demeanour: Curmudgeon

Talents, Skills and Knowledges: Lots, especially common abilities 
throughout the ages (like riding, melee or languages) and 
knowledges. Rather weak on specific modern areas, such as 
advanced science or computers. Unbeatable at history, of course. 

Arete: 5
Willpower: 10 

Arcane: 5 (Methuselah is a master of fading away from notice, even 
without using his considerable magickal powers. During his 
"sleeping" incarnations he is almost impossible to find). 

Avatar: - (Once quite powerful, but has lost its power during the 
millennia. Today it is completely dormant).

Destiny: 5 (He has influenced history more than anybody can 
realise, although his influence has been largely subtle and hard to 
discern even for himself. Today he has largely fullfilled his role, 
and history more and more wants to get rid of him). 

He is a Master of Mind and Spirit, probably very good at most other 
spheres. He is definitely able to use the rotes below, as many lesser 
effects.

Rotes:

Escape the Clutches of Death (Mind 5 Spirit 4 Correspondence 3)
When Methusalah feels death approaching or have decided to move 
on to a new body, he ceremonially cleanses himself, draws a circle 
of flour on the floor, steps into it and stabs himself in the heart 
with a ceremonial dagger. He wraps the veils of the spirit-world 
around his ethereal body, and speeds of into a new body. During his 
brief journey through the netherworld he is completely vulnerable 
and cannot use magick to defend himself. In more desperate cases 
he can dispense with the ceremonies, as long as he gets killed. 

Masque (Mind 5 Time 4 Prime 2 Spirit 2)
Methusalah is a master at designing new personalities, often 
complete with memories, own skills and realistic quirks. By 
overlaying one over his own personality he can hide himself 
completely from practically all mental scans. And by making it 
react to the presense of his pursuing demons, he can be awakened 
well before they arrive. 

Spirit Barrier (Spirit 4 Mind 3)
This barrier, drawn using flour or salt, will not only prevent any 
spirits from passing, it will also make whatever is inside invisible 
and unthinkable to them. They will not think of it, and if confronted 
directly with the barrier they cannot focus on it either.

Fool the Seeker (Correspondence 3 Mind 3 Entropy 2)
This rote makes people searching for the mage, even by scanning 
All-space, fail their search by making them overlook him or think 
he is somewhere else. Usually he performs this by writing ancient 
symbols and invocations on parchment or in cuneiform letters on 
clay, and then placing these red herrings all over the world.

Theme:
Death versus eternal Stasis, Power. Methuselah is a human vampire. 
By avoiding death, he has avoided life too and become something 
inhuman. He sacrifices his children and others to remain in 
existence, and he no longer seeks Ascension, just perpetual 
survival. 

He is also too powerful for the safety of anyone. He might remain 
hidden or live a quiet life, but sooner or later his destiny will 
always catch up with him. When he uses his powers, anybody in 
the vicinity is the risk of getting killed. The same is true for his 
pursuers. Normal people and ethics, risks getting crushed by the 
sheer force of him and his existence.


Story Ideas:

A friend of the characters is really Methuselah, who awakens. 
Suddenly they may have a extremely powerful and conservative 
contact. How will they react when they realise that the personality 
of their friend was just a masque, easily thrown away? And what if 
Methuselah turns out to be a loved one or a child of a character? 
Being a friend of Methuselah is also a mixed blessing. He is after all 
almost godlike in some respects, but all to human in others. And 
what if the demons start to approach? The characters can easily be 
trapped between the ruthless demons and the equally ruthless 
mage, who may decide to sacrifice them to gain some advantage or 
use them as decoys. 

The demons pursuing Methuselah has found his trail and are 
seeking him in the area. The characters are approached by one of 
them. It has realised that Methuselah will probably notice if it or its 
brethren approach him, but a few friendly human mages may be 
overlooked, and could perhaps backstab him in the right moment. 
If the players doesn't feel inclined to help it voluntarily, it has 
methods of persuade them... would it be nice if their souls were 
ripped into pieces and eaten by barghests? Or perhaps their 
families and friends?

A promising Euthanatos (quite possibly a player character) is given 
the demanding task to give Methuselah the Good Death. This may 
be the payment for his education, set by a bit too optimistic Mentor. 
The mage has to get all help he can to succeed, and may end up 
with both strange allies and enemies.

The Avatar of Methuselah has briefly awakened again, and 
desperately seeks to bring him back onto the path of Ascension. It 
knows it cannot persuade Methuselah, but when it reaches out it 
finds a fellow Avatar, once a shard of itself but now an independent 
Avatar. This belongs to a player character, whose next epiphany 
will be different. As a part of the Questing, his Avatar (in company 
with another silent figure) demands that he seeks out Methuselah 
and bring him onto the path of Ascension again. This is especially 
suitable for players with Dynamic essence. Who said the Seeking 
should be simple?


The Seven Spirits of Destruction

These beings were known as the maskim, the world-demons of the 
Babylonians. Other names are the Children of Vengeance, the Wind 
of Destruction or the Bringers of Suffering. Once they were widely 
feared, and many of the rituals of the Babylonian priests were done 
to keep them away. But as Babylon fell to the Assyrians, the old 
beliefs died out or changed. The Seven Spirits remained, but lost 
much of their power. However, the priest Methuselah went on 
living to their chagrin, a last symbol of the gods and priests they 
hated and the order they wanted to break down. He was of course a 
extremely dangerous target, since he knew the old magickal words 
which could command them, but if they struck during his short 
periods of incorporeality, they would get him. So they began to 
hunt him.

Through the millennia, they have hunted Methuselah. Their whole 
existence has become aimed on the single goal of finding him, 
killing him and rending his soul into tiny pieces. While most other 
beings from the Babylonian pantheon has faded due to lack of 
belief, the spirits focus and Methuselahps fear give them existence. 
In fact, without him they couldn't exist, something neither part 
would acknowledge. Several times they have been close to 
succeeding, but Methuselah has always managed to evade them. 

The Seven Spirits have many forms, but their preferred form in the 
Umbra is seven great pillars of fire, burning and desecrating 
everything they touch. They are surrounded by storming winds and 
gloomy weather (a sure sign of their approach is heavy smog or 
sunsets with unusual or disgusting colours). This is naturally 
extremely paradox-prone if used in static reality, and they have to 
take human shape to search for Methuselah in the physical world. 
Usually they look like seven powerfully built males of Mid-Eastern 
descent, wearing leather, knives, dark glasses and generally 
behaving not too unlike a modern motor-cycle gang. They have 
always had a strong affinity for wanton destruction and often 
indulge in a bit of vandalism when bored or frustrated. When they 
talk to each other they do it in old Babylonian, often referring to 
forgotten gods and their old lord Nin-Kigal (they sometimes draw 
graffiti containing ancient invocations in cuneiform). 

There is no doubt that the Seven Spirits are extremely dangerous. 
In human form they are limited to coincidental magick, but even 
that can be rather nasty. Most of the time they search for 
Methuselah from the Umbra, but manifest on Earth when they feel 
he is near, often appearing as a mundane gang. Their relations to 
other pursuing beings is a bit strained, since everyone wants to be 
the one who gets the price. They are especially angry at an 
unnamed Wraith lord who seeks to send Methuselah into Oblivion 
for some unknown reason. This being has several times interfered 
when they have been close to the mage to be able to attack him 
itself. 

Essence:	Questing
Nature:	Bravo
Demeanour: Bravo

Arete: 5
Willpower: 7

Powers:
Forces 4 Entropy 3:	As pillars of flame, they can burn everything 
into piles of poisonous ash and slag. As humans, they are expert 
arsonists, capable of setting fire to almost anything (or anyone). 
They can also control fire, fanning even the tiniest flames into 
conflagrations or passing through fire unharmed themselves.

Forces 3 Matter 3: They have control over winds and the weather, 
being able to summon storms, lightening or smog. 

Mind 2 Entropy 1: They always seems to know weak points and 
hidden fears of people, and are experts at intimidation. 

Forces 1 Matter 1: They are completely unimpeded by any form of 
darkness, fog, glare or other obstructions to their vision. 

Beside these powers, each spirit had its own individual powers in 
ancient times. They have vaned over time, but in extreme 
situations or when they are close to their goal these powers may 
resurge. 
