The Technocracy has for a long time been highly dependant on 
energy. Just like the syndicate is turning quintessence into money 
and Prime into Economy, Iteration X is turning quintessence into 
energy and Prime into physics. One of their most cunning plans is 
nuclear energy.

They have spent much time and energy in developing the theories 
of nuclear physics to fit their needs. Radioactive decay releases 
powerful forces, which disrupts nearby patterns. This is the reason 
why radioactivity is damaging for living beings, since it destroys 
their patterns. This pattern disrupting effect was quite useful in the 
atomic bomb, but Iteration X soon found a far more efficient use. 
With the help of the Syndicate, who controlled the economic and 
theoretical aspects of the project, they spread nuclear energy as a 
boon to mankind during the 50's and 60's. Lots of reactors were 
built, and while the Syndicate had to strain economic credibility a 
bit to make them commercially viable, they proved a great success 
for the Technocracy.

A nuclear reactor uses radioactive decay to produce energy, but 
unknown to the sleepers it also produces quintessence. The 
patterns of matter which is irradiated will break down, and release 
the quintessence trapped inside. By carefully designing the reactors 
to collect this quintessence, Iteration X have created artificial nodes. 
In practice, nuclear reactors burn not only the uranium needed to 
create the radiation needed, they also burn the water inside the 
reactor to produce quintessence. However, the amounts are usually 
so small that the disappearance can be ignored. The resulting prime 
is then either used at a nearby construct, channeled into 
Autocthonia or led away using the power-lines to other constructs. 

The prime from nuclear nodes is influenced by its hi-tech origin, 
and have a definite technomantic feeling. It is sometimes tainted by 
the anti-life effect of radioactivity, which makes it mostly useful for 
Iteration X, who tend to appreciate it. This is the real cause of the 
rumors of allergies and leucemia caused by power-lines. Besides 
the obvious uses of the quintessence, the waste quintessence from 
nuclear nodes is suitable for general reinforcement of static reality. 
The hi-tech quintessence is simply allowed to diffuse through the 
electrical networks, fuelling technology everywhere. 

In extreme cases, the technocracy might need enormous amounts of 
quintessence, like in creating new realms. They can then use their 
control over the reactors to burn massive amounts of matter into 
quintessence, at the cost of a small nuclear accident. This might 
have been the true reason for the Chernobyl accident, as the 
technomancers lost control over the raw quintessence and it formed 
into a Force-pattern. 

The Technocracy is a bit divided on the question whether to build 
more reactors or not. Iteration X and the Syndicate want them, but 
the NWO are worried about nuclear proliferation and that too much 
free quintessence will get loose. They have not yet decided on the 
issue of fusion, which will produce even more quintessence. Quite 
naturally, the traditions dislike nuclear power and support the 
anti.nuclear movements. They know that the real issue isn't the 
risks of nuclear power, but the fact that the Technocracy is 
spreading massive amounts of hi-tech, slightly tainted quintessence 
over the world. However, some SoE support the Technocracy, and 
want to spread nuclear energy to the people, allowing enormous 
amounts of quintessence into reality. 
