Primal Field Theory with Applications
by Vladimir K. Bougazov and Grant H. Thomson
Fourth Edition, BMI Press 1993.

Preface 
This textbook is intended primarily for the graduate course in 
practical primal field theory for students majoring in physics, 
practical paradigm alteration or potential engineering. It is assumed 
that the student has some general experience with primal effects 
and a solid grounding in unified field theory (later than the October 
1991 revision, which introduced category theory). It is highly 
recommended that a post-general relativity course in metaphysics 
that includes the theory of Wiener matrices and elementary reality 
morphology be taken prior or concurrently with this course in 
primal field theory.

This fourth edition is basically the same in its general outline and 
content as the previous edition. Some new material has been added 
after the July 1993 symposium, which modified the Rogers-Fowler 
equation to take semi-primal effects into account. The general 
theory of nodal phenomena has been moved into a own chapter, 
and the quasiperiodic perturbation method has been removed after 
the decision of the symposium. 

This book is deliberately written using many of the standard terms 
from the Traditions, of several reasons. We have found that many 
of our students find it hard to understand traditional literature or 
mages on the subject, as they are unfamiliar with the arcane jargon. 
This is a handicap, as students may some day have to understand 
the ideas of traditional prime alteration theory. Another reason for 
the inclusion of traditional terms is the new re-education program 
of the Recruitment Division, which will use this series of textbooks 
in its courses. We have done our best to use the traditional terms 
and definitions in parallel to the stringent treatment of the theory. 
When the terms are conflicting, we have used the correct 
mathematical term, and noted the conflict in the sidebar. 

We have used metric units (SI-5) in numerical examples and 
problems. In some places older unit systems (SI 3-4) are used due 
to their greater every day use. Worked examples of problems are 
included at the end of nearly all sections, and problems to be 
worked out by the student are provided at the end of the chapter. 
Some problems are important theorems for which the student is 
asked to devise a proof. The authors have always felt that the 
student should participate in the development of the subject, rather 
than merely substitute numbers into equations or perform 
experiments already derived in the text. Answers to odd numbered 
theorems are given at the end of the book. A list of physical and 
mathematical helps and formulae is also included in the 
appendixes.

The practical exercises, albeit limited due to practical reasons both 
include observation of the in the text mentioned  phenomena 
(where possible) and practical experiments. Due to the nature of 
primal field theory, these may not be possible in all courses 
(Especially some of the more advanced or drastic effects can only 
be replicated at larger laboratories). Wherever an exercise requires 
a paradigm with non-standard parameters this is marked by a star 
(*). Dangerous or highly energetic experiments are marked with 
two stars (**). A few exercises of a highly interesting nature, which 
cannot be replicated inside a laboratory are provided, marked with 
three stars (***). The authors would be very grateful if the student 
(or teacher) would report his or her findings, should the necessary 
preconditions for the experiments arise.

The authors wishes to express his gratitude to the users of the 
previous edition for the errata lists and many constructive 
suggestions they have provided. The following reviewers offered 
many valuable suggestions, and the authors are deeply grateful for 
their help: Charles C. Faughn, Iteration X, Education Central 5, 
Autocthonia; Raymond T. Harrison Jr, Void Engineer Long Range 
Correlation Study Team; Karl Kramer, Void Engineer Postgraduate 
School;  Anders Sandberg, University of Stockholm; James K. O’Brien, 
New World Order, London; Takata Sahashiro, Iteration X Tokyo. Don 
E. Weil, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Miriam S. Winkel 
New World Order Military Academy; 

Vladimir K. Bougazov, Moscow Central
Grant H. Thomson, Void Engineer Postgraduate School

Overview of this textbook:
This textbook is divided in three sections: first a theoretical 
derivation of the Rogers-Fowler equations in n-dimensional space, 
and their numerical solution. Then comes the main part, 
demonstrating the morphology of primal fields and flows, and then 
the final part, containing outlooks towards current research and 
definition.

The text begins with a brief introduction to the essentials of 
Wiener-matrices and unified field theory. This leads naturally to 
the concepts of unified energy and primal energy, which are 
compared with the historical model of ”quintessence” it replaces. 
After this preparation, the one-dimensional Rogers-Fowler 
equations are derived, and compared to experiments. 

In chapter 2, the general Rogers-Fowler equations are derived 
using both category theory and morphological calculus. The 
emphasis is on the practical use, and their utility is demonstrated in 
several examples. Note the absence of quasiperiodic perturbation 
theory, removed by the July 1993 symposium. This has been 
replaced with standard methods. 

In chapter 3, the equations are used to derive the standard field 
configurations, especially when coupled with matter. Several of the 
more common configurations, like ”ley-lines”, nodes and vortices 
are discussed at length.

Chapter 4 is devoted completely to the general theory of nodal 
phenomena. First the standard fields are discussed, then perturbed 
fields and finally the Gordon-Klein category of nodal disturbances. 
Applications to paradigm alteration and potential engineering are 
discussed. 

Part two begins with chapter 5, which discusses the main flows of 
prime in the Universe. These follow fixed paths, which form an 
interconnecting network throughout reality. From the main lines 
smaller lines branch off, in a Levy-Mandelbrot network which is 
crucial to the formation of matter and energy. 

Chapter 6 discusses the interconnecting points of this network, the 
nodes. Uses for the build-up of potential are manifold, and different 
methods (both large scale and personal) for extraction of primal 
energy are evaluated. Different scales are compared, from 
macronodes down to the micronodes and the quantum nodes which 
couple to the Schroedinger fields. Nodes with morphological 
imprints. Negative nodes. Methods of detection.

Chapter 7 discusses primal vortices on different scales, primarily on 
the subnanometer scale. Since the rotating primal field reinforces 
itself, the vortices are very stable. They are compared to the 
standard model of elementary particles. Macroscopic vortices are 
discussed, and methods of detection and neutralisation with 
minimum damage are described.

Chapter 8: Primal waves and spatio-temporal evolution of primal 
fields under stress. Standing waves. Uses of primal vibrations, and 
their detection. Interaction with matter and other primal 
phenomena. Practical uses for interference. Interactions with 
negative nodes, and the use of the primal low-flux interferometer.

Chapter 9 discusses cataclysmic changes in the primal field and 
their causes and effects. The most common, ley-shifts and vorticical 
disruption are described at length. Primal shockwaves and their 
effects on matter and life are discussed, and methods of protection 
are compared. Large scale field reorientation is studied from 
historical data, and compared to current research. 

Chapter 10 discusses the effects of ”paradox”, self sustaining 
patterns in the primal field. Causes of self organisation. Paradox 
domains and methods of their construction. Spontaneous symmetry 
breaking with energy release, ”Paradox Backlash”, and 
corresponding effects on the environment. Morphic field 
degeneration. ”Paradox nodes”. General information theory of 
primal patterns.

Chapter 11 deals with areas of low ambient field strength and their 
properties. Their uses, and methods of detecting them. Methods of 
neutralisation.

Chapter 12 discusses areas with strong ambient prime fields, and 
their properties. Phenomena at high ambient primal levels. Field 
negentropy. The Takayama model of hard reality. Methods of 
creating, sustaining and dissipating fields. 

Chapter 13: the interaction between living beings and the primal 
field. Special attention is given to conscious manipulation of the 
field. Effects of changes in the field in living beings are discussed. 
Medical care of primal damage. Methods of detecting primal fields 
in living beings.

Part three discusses the more advanced problems in primal field 
theory. Chapter 14 discusses methods of redirecting primal flows on 
the macroscopic scale. As an example, the use of a freeway in 
France to dam a ley line is discussed at length. Practical problems 
with primal reservoirs and artificial nodes are studied, along with 
methods of neutralising their effects. Protective shielding of primal 
patterns, and Rayleigh-type defences are briefly covered.

Chapter 15 is about global scale primal reengineering. The current 
state (including the protective near-space shielding) is discussed at 
length. Several detailed examples are given of global scale projects, 
like the Deep Ocean Redevelopment Initiative of Iteration X and the 
World-wide Primal Redirection Program. Some outlooks on future 
projects, and the planned final phase 2012.  

Chapter 16 analyses the by the Void Engineers proposed topological 
model of the primal field, and its implications. Its current political 
status is unsure, but it gives the student a clear insight in state of 
the art paradigm modelling. Its development is compared to the 
Helmholz model of paradigm introduction.

Chapter 17 concludes this textbook by discussing the uses of the 
proposed Controlled Primal Disruption Method on small scales to 
create controlled small scale shockwaves, local topology changes 
and meso-scale vortices. Their potential uses are weighed against 
their disadvantages. Alternative models, should the proposal fail on 
the Mars 1994 symposium. 

(500 pages of pure technobabble and mathematics follows.)
