From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Thu Oct 28 05:51:45 1996
Status: RO
X-Status: D
Path: news.kth.se!eru.mt.luth.se!news-stkh.gsl.net!news.gsl.net!news-peer.gsl.net!news.gsl.net!news.sprintlink.net!news-peer.sprintlink.net!howland.erols.net!agate!not-for-mail
From: erikred@soda.CSUA.Berkeley.EDU (Erik Nielsen)
Newsgroups: alt.games.whitewolf
Subject: Re: A Motivational Seminar for Mages
Date: 28 Oct 1996 05:51:45 -0800
Organization: UC Berkeley Computer Science Undergraduate Organization
Lines: 90
Message-ID: <552dph$sid@soda.CSUA.Berkeley.EDU>
References: <54r4qt$bfs@news.ccit.arizona.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: soda.csua.berkeley.edu
Keywords: and it was this or an evangelical speech

CATALOG: LEC/25501-32-666N
Not Doissetep
July 14, 1996
Speaker:  Unknown
Subject:  Rebuttal

Hello, friends.  Can I call you friends?  I'd like that.  I'd like that very
much.  You may be asking yourself, "Now, why does this guy want to call me
'friend'?  We've never met before."  But you see, that's where you're
wrong.  You've met me before, or someone like me.  That's because I'm a
winner, friend.

I used to be meek and mild.  I used to care what other people thought about
me.  I went to the office Monday through Friday, nine to five.  I went to
Church on Sundays.  I even collected stamps.  I was a pretty dull fellow.

But one day a woman came up to me just like I'm coming up to you.  And that
woman said, "Hello, friend," just like I did to you.  And do you know what
else she told me, friends?  She told me the Truth.  Now I'm not talking
about a small "t" truth here; I'm talking about a capital "T," eternal
verity, Truth.

She said, "Friend, what are you doing with your life?  Are you happy?  Are
you fulfilled?"  And I had to answer no, I was not happy.  I was not
fulfilled.  She asked me, "Do you feel like you are doing something
worthwhile with your life?"  And I looked long and hard at my life, at my
wife and two boys, at my job at the bank, at fifty-two Sundays of every year
spent at Church, listening to some guy talking about how the meek inherit
the Earth and how we're all supposed to turn the other cheek, and I
answered, "No.  No, I do not feel like I am doing something worthwhile with
my life."

And then do you know what she did?  I'll tell you what that kind, wonderful
woman did.  She leaned in real close, and then, when I was listening with
all my heart, waiting with all my soul for her words, she slapped me.

That's right.  She hit me dead on the side of the face.  And she said, "Does
that make you angry?  Does that make you mad?"  And believe me friends, I
was plenty sore, but I still was not a violent man; I was still meek and
mild, a lamb walking in the lions' den.  So she slapped me again and again.
"Does that make you angry, you worm?  Does that make you mad, you loser?"
And then I snapped, and I hit back, and do you know what friends?  Do you
know what I found out when I finally let go?

It.  Felt.  Good.

Now I know you don't want to believe me here, friends.  I know you're
thinking, "I could never do that."  But you're wrong, friends.  You do have
that strength, believe me.

All your life, since kindergarten, They've been telling you lies.  Share
your toys.  Be a good boy.  Don't hurt the weak.  Do as you're told.  But
you're wearing chains, friends.  Chains They fastened to your neck a long
time ago.  Chains you didn't even know you had.  You know the enemy's name,
friends.  The Technocracy.

Who succeeds in this world, friends?  Who gets the best jobs?  The most
money?  The beautiful sex partners?  The ruthless.  The callous.  The Strong.

Do you think Rupert Murdoch ever said, "That's all right, you go ahead, you
deserve it more than I do"?  Do you think Bill Gates ever told his
competitors, "There's plenty of this money to go around, why don't you have
some, too"?  Do you think Ronald Reagan ever said, "I'm sorry"?  No, no, and
no.  They knew what they wanted, and they got it.  They focused on their
goals, and they achieved them.  And they didn't give a damn who got in the
way.

Now some of you are probably thinking, "This is immoral and unethical."
That's the sheep in you thinking.  That's the fear talking.  Be stronger
than that, friends.

The enemy wants you to believe that we're the enemy, but that's just another
set of chains.  We're here to help you, friends.  Do you know what?  We even
want you to join us.  All you have to do is throw off their chains.  Stand
free.  Stop serving your Technocratic Masters and start serving yourself.
Our Lords of Light need your help to overthrow the Technocratic slavery
that's ruined so many Tradition mages.

Come and stand with us, friends.  Stand tall.  Stand proud.  Come over to us
through the Caul.

====End====

Erik "Not my beliefs, mind you, but for every action...." Nielsen

-- 
"To sleep perchance to dream, Ay, there's the rub;
 for in that sleep of death, what dreams may come
 when we have shuffled off this mortal coil must
 give us pause...."	The Bard, waxing poetic...


