Sanctum Sanctorum:
By Reverend Kinesys

I got to thinking about Sanctums the other day. and it occured to me 
that it was one of those little corners of the WOD that wasn't exactly 
painted.(if you take my meaning.)
I think each and every one of us has an idea of what a son of ether 
Sanctum looks like and what a Child of Knowledge Sanctum might look 
like too. So the challenge becomes to define what other sanctums look 
like.

What do all Sanctums share in common?
1) They are places where bending reality becomes easier for the mage 
or mages in question. In this respect they are like places of power 
for mages without exactly being a horizon realm. (which is a good 
thing, it gives a haven to mages without all the baggage of horizon 
realms and ancient chantries and extra-planetary jaunts and all that 
stuff that is completely out of place in a Destiny's Price style 
chronicle. It also precludes the mages from chickening out and ducking 
into the realm for a while when pissed off vampires or werewolves show 
up.)
2) they offer an additional amount of anonymity and arcane, thus 
enabling the mage to work large magicks without being a huge blip on 
the nearest Manar scope. They enable a mage to attack remote targets 
without being discovered. they enable mages to hide when the heat is 
on. ("No...I'm sorry...you people want Doktor FrankenSTERN!
He's the next castle on the left!") They also enable mages to hide 
awkward things that need hiding like diabolic summonings and Nodes. 
Sanctums also keep others from knowing what you are up to and is 
perhaps the sole reason why Convention mages use them too. Arcane 
keeps that pesky Time scrying off of you while you plot your enemies 
bureaucratic demise.
3) they act as a good places to put all the mages assorted Mathoms 
like their library, their tass supplies,ritual equipment,old 
foci,alchemical labs and other whatnot. because of the places Arcane, 
Others will not find them. In fact, Sanctums seem to gain power based 
on the amount of Magick Junk they have stored in them.(sort of a weird 
quasi-resonance thing.)

Akashic Sanctums:
These sorts of sanctums break down into a couple of different types. 
Many follow the form and function of a traditonal Kwoon or Dojo. These 
types of Sanctum tend to accumulate weapons on the walls,pictures of 
former masters,scrolls of the teaching, the heavy bag,the speed bag, 
arrow and shuriken targets. Maka wara boards, bricks, wooden practice 
dummies, exercise equipment of all types. Herbalogical equipment
in large laquered wooden cabinets, Tatamae(a soft floor), and numerous 
other training tools.
    Some Akashics, particularly Orange Robes are more at home in a 
monasterial setting and might make a combination shrine/library sort 
of arangement. While a Blue Skin might just find a waterfall and start 
to build a zen garden around it.( the act of creating the zen garden 
would be roughly analagous to act of gathering Stuff. the same effect 
would be achieved.)
   In all cases, you will be able to find joss, and ritual 
purifications(the caligraphic form of hedge magick and the sight will 
also have to abide by the rules of  feng shui.(and may in fact provide 
some additional abilities if in a really good site.

Celestial Sanctums:
    these sorts of sanctums are a lot like a miniature shrine or 
temple of their own.They differ from a church proper because they are 
sustained by the will and faith of parishoner only. The best way to 
picture the kind of stuff that is available in a Celestial
Sanctum is to picture a Catholic Mass. The priest enters into a fenced 
off area(to seperate himself from the parishoners mentally. proximity 
is very important in magickal theory.) He wears a special set of 
clothes(vestments) and works with a special set of tools and 
helpers(altar-persons ,Holy water,and the cup and plate) He 
consecrates the wine and wafers.(symbolic representation of the deity) 
and even the air he breathes is changed to be made otherworldly.(with 
a censer, smell is very important trigger for changing conciousness.) 
This collection of theurgical material is also important for magickal 
workings and is also augmented by religious books and in some cases 
music as well. Naturally the trappings are going to be vastly 
different if your Celestial mage is a hindu or a bantu. But the ideas 
and processes for touching the divinity are universal and even they 
are ultimately unneccesary. Other Stuff might include,healing 
paraphenalia,candles,musical instruments,scourges(to mortify the 
flesh) Hallucino-gens (for the purposes of prophecy.) and a natural 
source of water or fire.

Cult of Ecstasy Sanctums:
 Try to picture the coolest bedroom in the world. Nice big comfy 
futon, Game system that will run just about anything,Shelves and 
shelves of books and sheet musick, keyboard,and guitars,incense and 
other Head supplies like that. psychodelic lighting and other weird 
stuff of that sort.(stick-on Glo-in-the-dark stars, day-glo mandalas, 
black light painting, a lava lamp or two. a chinese rug on the 
floor...go nuts.) Candles with holders that will prevent an accidental 
fire. a skylight or maybe a mirror over the bed. A closet filled with 
every sex toy known to person-kind. Hell...maybe even a hot tub. This 
would be the place where the Cultist would go to safely stimulate 
himself or another or where he would go to seek refuge from stimulus. 
In many cases, these sanctums can be made as devoid of sensory 
stimulus as possible.(many are light tight.)  Some Ecstatic cultists 
try to live in very small homes so as to be able to claim the whole 
house as a sanctum.

Dreamspeaker Sanctums:
Are usually naturally occuring structures or are built in such a way 
as to be part of the ecology. While the Urban shaman might have some 
difficulty in this regard, treehouses are becoming increasingly 
popular as a means around the problem. Mages in the wild will use old 
trees,Caves,and burial mounds as well as any hidden spot where the ley 
lines are particularly strong.
   So how do Dreamspeaker accumulate Stuff? Well.... they don't 
really. But they might grow a garden, paint some cave paintings,and 
such sites often attract animals (peacefull ones generally.) Some 
dreamspeakers also partake in verbena-like lore and might have some 
books and herbs stored nearby. The Sanctum could take the form of a 
shack or cabin way out in the middle of nowhere. The sanctum might 
also accumulate cultural arts and crafts.Drums,handbuilt snowshoes and 
Bows,bullroarers and other caboodle like that.

Euthanatos Sanctums:
these sanctums often blend elements of Chorus Sanctums and Akashic 
Sanctums Some are temples to shiva,some are workshops for assembling 
bombs or distilling poisons, almost all have an area set aside for 
combat training and for using dance as a focus. Like many types of 
sanctums these places often rely heavily on music and incense to 
create a particular mindset and to remove the mage from worldly 
concerns.
   There are so many ways to deal death, and there are so many tools 
to do so that a list of euthanotic Stuff could be a post all by 
itself....But here is a short smattering of ideas like...tools,a 
forge,explosives,poisons,statues to kali,booby traps,torture 
implements,Bones and other dead stuff,sharpeners, books of stolen 
kindred and wraith lore. Targets, sacrifices and maybe a prisoner or 
two.

Hermetic Sanctums:
 While Hermetic Sanctums are not without their Theurgical elements, 
they are mainly used as studies and places to experiment. Odds are 
good that their magickal library is here. if the hermetic in question 
has an interest in anything personal and time consuming it will be 
here as well.(Computers?Herbology?Alchemy?Ships-in-bottles?)
 Alchemical labs are usefull for a few things, Qabalistic high ritual 
magick requires a number of diverse foci, Enochian mages will require 
a tablet of Solomon and every single hermetic sanctum has at least one 
permanent protective circle for summonings
and other major workings. some also have thaumaturgical triangles and 
Sephirothic trees. Hermetic Sanctums are often very comfy as hermetics 
spend a lot of time in them.

Sons of Ether:
Well.....Hmmm...If there was any group that the background was 
invented for, this is it. Where else are you gonna keep those 
apparatus and monsters(not to mention that assistant...yeesh!)
The following appended list is taken from someone else post. I regret 
that I don't know whose because it's simply brilliant and I reprint it 
here in the spirit of transmitting the information again. If it 
belongs to anybody out there get in touch with me.

Extension cords - and lots of them.	
Duck Tape - holds everything together.	
A big Generator - MORE POWER!!! Bwahahahaha!	
Tesla Coils - gives good mad-scientist lighting
A good "Control Panel" - with knobs, dials, and buttons galore.	
A nice sound system, tapes of a raging thunderstorm - for mood.	
A "frankenstein switch" - to pull for big effects.	
Spare lab coats - always have a clean lab coat on hand in case 
something important happens by.	
Readouts with the glass covers off - so you can change the readings as 
needed.	
A skylight - OK, more of a feature of the lab itself, but still 
essential.
All kinds of scientific meters - Photometers, pH meters, 
voltmeters,Gas Chromatograph, Speedometer, Odometer, etc.
Ether Telescope and Microscope - to see things too small or distant 
for Ether goggles to pick up.	
Rubber gloves - for messy work.	
Sledgehammer, pipe wrench, pliers - for REALLY messy work, for 
self-defense too.	Oil can - to get moving parts going right.	
Espesso machine - for those long nights.	
Lab Mice - even mages need cute pets, never hurt them, only a cruel 
technocracy mage would do that.	
A Freezer - for cold storage of things.  	
Beakers and glassware and Bunsen Burners (ohmy)	
Acid of some type - to warn people away from.
Many brightly colored chemical solutions	
Some Flourescent Fluid	
Silly Putty - for calibrating instuments, defying analysis, and	use on 
the funny papers.	A really big Fish Tank - for immersing things in 
moxes of stuff	
An inflatable Godzilla Decoy - to fool rampaging monsters, best if 
enhances witha CO2 cartride for a quick inflation.       
 Band Aids - For minor lab accidents and study.	

For a SoE Botanist:
     Several dozen spray bottles containing a variety of plant 
nutrients     
A large hydroponics tank with gro-lighting adjustable to an extensive 
variety of colors      Flowers which would change color whenever 
nobody was looking at them.      
A Familiar which appeared as a cross between Junior from Little Shop 
and Cleopatra from Addams Family.     
 Hundreds of soil samples, including some taken from Umbral Realms.     
 A seed collection containing varieties which were either extinct or 
which nobody had ever heard of, as well as mundane ones.     
 An attached greenhouse which was conspicuously designed more to keep           
things IN than OUT.     
 A cage and tank containing common feeder animals (goldfish and mice) 
though there APPEARED to be nothing to feed them to.      
Several cages (again, no lab ANIMALS to put them in.)     
 A flame thrower (?!)     
A moderate chemistry lab, mostly mundane.      
The occasional small plant which would uproot and run away if anyone 
attempted to touch it.     
 A plot of carrots which appeared to be growing upside down (with the 
leaves in the soil and the root protruding.)     
 A couple cabbages which could occasionally he heard to hum 
tunelessly.      
A hand-pump chemical sprayer labeled EMERGENCY in ominous lettering.      
A notable lack of insects.      

I'm sorry...I had to laugh after reading it again.(BTW i found out 
that this was written by both Michael Moolick and Datawolf. Kudos to 
you!)

Verbena Sanctums:
Verbena and dreamspeaker sanctums share a lot of common 
characteristics. an outdoor setting or very convenient to one. a 
lowered gauntlet, friendly local animals,
artsy-craftsy stuff,healing supplies,apothecarial junk, a local 
garden, an almanac,an ephemeris, incense, air,earth,fire,and water. 
sacrifices,(maybe.) some teutonic verbena go a lot further with old 
weapons and runes on everything, Santeria practitioners rival both 
celestial mages and Bataa'a mages for sheer volume of Sacred materials 
and icons. goblets,altars and some kind of knife of axe are usually 
the only universal element in this group. Verbena Sanctums react badly 
to being desecrated. It is known that those who do usually end up 
horribly cursed.

Virtual adept Sanctums:
In some respects, the virtual sanctum is often the only place that a 
virtual can really relax and play a bit of Marathon. while Virtuals 
pride themselves on their self sufficient nature and self contained 
power  they perhaps need a sanctum as much if not more than Sons of 
Ether.
  The Virtual sanctum often is dominated by the Virtual's sit-down 
mainframe computer. workdesk and an electronics workbench. the place 
is often heavy with multiple monitors, fax/modems, printers, 
laminators,phone lines,VR gear,tech manuals,CD-roms of important  
Magickal works, backup software, a portable fridge and microwave.
most Virtual Sanctums also have technology built into the walls and 
the phone lines that is similar to a fighter jets ECM package to 
produce that Arcane feeling.(never mind that this is probably 
impossible.)  There is at least one Virtual Magus in our campaign that 
has transformed an old reconditioned Bookmobile into a Sanctum. 
Virtuals only spend a lot of time in their sanctum when coding 
something big or when making a serious run on a heavily protected 
system.

You might think that Technocrats would not have to have a sanctum and 
in fact the official policy is that Sancta(?) are against the rules of 
the union, they endanger the prevailing paradigm, they make members of 
the union difficult to find, and there is no reason that convention 
members can't use open general labs for their work.
  This is, of course, bullshit.
Technocrats need Sanctums just as much as tradition mages if only to 
keep prying eyes from their own side off of them. Technocrats need a 
place to experiment with the cutting edge of the paradigm,plan their 
bureaucratic vendettas,turn nephandi,plan their escape, and of course 
store their junk.

Progenitor Sanctums:
    It is heavily frowned on for Progenitors to use Conventional 
resources to make things for their personal use...Never mind that 
everybody does it. That's what Progenitor Sanctums are for. There are 
Progenitors that study herb lore,keep bees, grow custom orchids,make 
pets (that will kill you...) and stow away a spare tank for the clone 
you are growing on the sly.


Iterator X Sanctums:
Rare,but not impossible. They violate Orthodoxy, but some Iterator 
mages do find that they work better alone. Picture an immaculate 
workshop with every kind of tool that you can imagine. Then double it.

Order Sanctums:
Every Order mage needs a place that he is sure is not bugged and will 
often go to great lengths to secure such a place. Most Sanctums of 
Order mages are extremely anonymous offices in near empty office 
buildings somewhere out of the way. They also use small cramped labs 
for those mages well versed in brainwashing techniques.
   Since Order mages must usually account for every piece of equipment 
that they handle, sometimes stocking the Sanctum with found articles 
can be a real hassle.

Void Sanctums:
  Void engineers,because of the sheer weight of secrets that they must 
keep, often need a sanctum. Research and Execution allways needs a lab 
away from the prying eyes of those not in on the big joke. cybernaut 
sanctums are practically identical to Virtual Sanctums and anyone 
involved in Chronal or Spiritual Research has to have 
a Sanctum if he's going to be working earthside for any reason.
   In fact, it is a good idea to assume that any Void engineer that is 
working on terran soil has got to have a lab/bolthole tucked away 
somewhere. if only to be able to use magicks that he's grown used to 
in other places that he can't use here.

Syndicate Sanctums:
It doesn't matter what the place looks like as long as it has 
electricity, and a connection to civilization. As long as that's the 
case, Hey....Why not go all out?  Some syndicate consider their 
offices to be their sanctums, some keep mountain retreats where they 
go to re-charge from the office. A palatial penthouse somewhere in the 
city is also a possibility. especially if that place is well stocked 
with alcohol,cable T.V.,a Jacuzzi, and a few buff sorrority girls. In 
fact, in Syndicate circles, Sanctums are a form of status symbol and 
only a low level shmuck doesn't have at least one. Among Convention 
mages, Syndicate mages are also the most likely to have some sort of 
Trophy room of some sort and all sorts of junk is likely to accumulate 
here.

Other Kinds of Sanctums:

Hollow Ones Sanctums:
While Orphans tend to run the entire gamut of Sanctum types, Hollowers 
have sort of taken on a distinctive look and feel to their Sanctums. 
Like every other type of mage they have some sort of incense.(in the 
case of technocrats,just in case you are wondering it is either 
Spic-n-Span or burning solder) and they also have books.
(allthoug a Hollower is just as likely to have them jammed into a 
disused closet as on a bookshelf.)   Some Hollowers like graveyard 
crypts for their Sanctums while others will decorate a room with 
decayed black lace and real cobwebs to get that oh so important 
ambience. Their choice of music is liable to be as laid back as Enigma 
or Orbital or as violent as the Ramones or the Dead Kennedy's. Some 
might have musical instruments or computers.Others might have bongos 
and the odd wraith fetter. No Hollow One Sanctum is complete without a 
set of Tarot cards and a Ouija board. any place that is abandoned is 
ideal for making into a sanctum.

Craft Sanctums:
Any of the Asian Crafts(Wu Keng and Wu Lung) will usually conform to 
the kinds of Sanctums that the Akashics have.
As far as the Bataa'a go, a voodoun Hounfor is basically the 
definition of a Sanctum.There will allways be plenty of wide open 
space for dancing.
Children of Knowledge will have alchemical equipment that will put any 
Hermetic equipment to shame. Hermetics have entered into CoK labs and 
found themselves drooling.
Sisters of Hippolyta and Kopa Loie Mages are likely to conform in many 
ways to both Dreamspeaker and Verbena Sanctums. Kopa Loie Sanctums are 
allways near water. Which isn't exactly hard in the hawaiian islands.
Templars will have Sanctums that are identicle with their Chorus 
counterparts. (allthough the musical elements will be conspicously 
absent) and as far as the Hem Ka Sobk go...well,they probably have 
Sanctums but nobody has seen the inside of one and lived.

Nephandi Sanctums:
Small out of the way temples,in building basements,in deep subteranean 
fastnesses, in old abandoned barns in new england somewhere... Some 
nephandi sanctums reside cheek-by-jowl with tradition and technocrat 
areas. Some like to reside near spiral danser Caerns,Jhuvunka 
warrens,and large nihils. Nephandi have even been known to create 
havens out of radioactive test sites, on islands crawling with 
smallpox, and in neighborhood graveyards and junkyards. Icons to their 
master often have links to them as well,and may prove dangerous. 
(especially in the case of the outsider things who have a history of 
statue animation) Nephandi Sanctums are likely to be littered with 
slaves and pets.(who may or may not be able to leave) and all sorts of 
equipment.
   The sanctum will often conform to their former traditions or 
conventions standards unless of course, they are not barrabi and 
follow the Nephandic tradition itself.
  Such Sanctums are a Satanists wet dream and occasionally make Spiral 
dansers nervous and ornery.( >sniff< ...Too clean...need more 
shit,blood,and dirt in the air.) their incense is a cloying sickly 
sweet reek that leaves itself embedded in your clothes.
their books are those worm-eaten but carefully preserved tomes of 
utterly damned literature. Their trophies are likely to be real heads 
on the wall. Some historically minded Nephandi have become attached to 
particular eras of history and or particular attrocities. and they 
have started decorating their sancta in those fashions. This is a fad 
that is begining to catch on as it make it very to easy to link these 
sanctums to certain areas of the Attrocity Realm. The current 
favorites decorator fashions include Concentration Camp, Ancient Rome, 
Spanish inquisition,Soweto,Jonestown, and Khmer Rouge.
  Also remember that most Nephandi Sanctums are seriously 
booby-trapped. if only to keep out their fellow Nephandi.
   
This pitch for Century 21 has been brought to you by....
Kinesys@hotmail.com (home of Rev.K.)
Smooth and Kissable...
Slick and non-dissable...

