From nv91-asa@nada.kth.se Wed May 21 18:11:31 1997
Status: RO
X-Status: 
Received: from iglou1 (exim@iglou1.iglou.com [192.107.41.3])
	by mail.nada.kth.se (8.8.4/8.8.4) with SMTP
	id SAA23587 for <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>;
	Wed, 21 May 1997 18:11:28 +0200 (MET DST)
Received: from vorlon by iglou1 with smtp (8.7.3/8.6.12)
	id 0wUDyz-0000Yf-00; Wed, 21 May 1997 12:11:21 -0400
Date: Wed, 21 May 1997 12:11:20 -0400 (EDT)
From: Jimmy McKinney <vorlon@iglou.com>
X-Sender: vorlon@iglou1
Reply-To: Jimmy McKinney <vorlon@iglou.com>
To: The Mage Mailing List <mage-l@oracle.wizards.com>
cc: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@nada.kth.se>,
        Chris Cox <kwdrak1@uky.campus.mci.net>,
        Rick Lawing <rlawing210@aol.com>
Subject: The Other Scientists
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.96.970521094037.10334A-100000@iglou1>
X-Ultimate-Answer: 42
X-IRC-Nick: Gregor
Organization: Amateur Mad Scientists Association
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII

   In discussions of the Sons/Children/Persons/Team of Ether, most people
are at a loss to think of any other characterizations than the Mad
Scientist stereotype. While there is nothing wrong with this sort of SoE
(they are in fact, my favorite sort), I am probably not helping matters by
posting all sorts of information and stories about this type. Therefore,
whilst brainstorming just before bed last night, and about 10 minutes this
morning, I wrote up a list of some alternate styles of ether Science, and
came up with some interesting thoughts. A lot of these have been covered
elsewhere (especially the SoE tradbook), but I'm making very little
attempt to comply with these portrayals. After all, if they were the most
memorable portrayals, I wouldn't need to write this.

Alternate Etheric Science
=========================
Ether mages may be divided into several broad categories. The most common
of these mages -- the mad scientists -- would fall into the category of
experimentalist or reasearcher. These guys may employ the entire
gamut of Weird, Fringe, and Pseudo Sciences (see later for details)
depending on temperament. There are, however, others that also fit next to
them.

Radical Scientists
------------------
The first of these is the one I like to call the Radical Scientist. In a
laboratory setting, Radical Scientists tend to look indistinguishable from
their mundane or technocratic counterparts. They employ fringe science and
radical science to explore the boundaries of Science. These are the men
and women in the world's labs that can steer an average mundane experiment
into the realm of Etheric Science. Typically, they specialize in some
field like physics or chemistry, and work to further the goals of the SoE
by proposing radical or fringe theories to do so. These guys are the
opposite of technocratic scientists that sabotage SoE theories in the
labs. They rarely if ever get vulgar, and rarely attract attention to
themselves or their part in a radical new theory (if the theory itself
attracts the world's attnetion, that's fine)

Abilities: Knowledges, especially medical or scientific knowledges of 4+,
are a must, as with most SoEs. Computer is another typical aptitude in
todays laboratory environment.

Spheres: Radical Scientists tend to have one highly developed sphere or
two, and very little in anything else. These spheres are related to th
area of specialization, of course.

Foci: Lots of high-tech equipment to test theories with. The theory itself
may serve as a focus in most cases.

Examples: Cold Fusion, the film Chain Reaction, Nikola Tesla (though not
lab oriented, and more visible than average), amateurs that explore
helical coil field dynamics and the like.


Armchair Scientists
-------------------
These are rather odd scientists; most don't experiment, and some rarely
use their Scientific capabilities at all! Usually these scientists are
purely theoretical, prefering to concentrate on ideas rather than testing
or application. This is the most likely sort to be found in Victorian
style men's clubs, discussing this or that new Scientist or Experiment
over cognac and a pipe. Not always though, some are found in labs,
indistinguishable from other types of Scientists. The best of them can so
capture the world's imagination that they subvert the technocratic
paradigm practically by opening their mouth.

Abilities: A broad knowledge of current theories in the whole scientific
community is useful. Otherwise, it's painfully apparent to your colleagues
that you are discussing something you know nothing about.

Spheres: These Scientists use their Magick so infrequently, it's hard to
say WHAT they have. The most likely choice is that they are strong in mind
magicks, both to convince others of their validity, and to develop their
theories and defend them by self-enhancement.

Foci: Who knows? If anything, these are the most likely mages to use a
theory as a focus.

Examples: Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, Quantum Physics, Dark Matter
as the lost Ether, tachyons as a loophole in technocratic relativity.

Parapsychologists
-----------------
Obsessed with exploring the supernatural, these mages experiment and
research into paranormal activity and record their observations. They are
the most likely to run into the other denizens of the WoD, and the most
likely to be attacked by same. Less obviously, the more loose cannons
among them often have close ties to such elements as the Cult of Ecstacy,
for example for exploring the effects of LSD-type drugs upon ESP
potentials of sleepers. These Scientists are also the most likely to turn
Gung-Ho if they don't like what they find, and use their science to attack
other races.

Abilities: Research, Technology, Investigation, and Science (usually
psychology and parapsychology)

Spheres: Mind for ESP research, Spirit/Entropy for ghostly areas. Time is
used in pre/post cognition, Forces for exploring PKE or telekinetic
energies.

Foci: A wide array of technological devices, some mundane, some not. Such
things as kirlian lenses, Infrared film, PKE valence meters, and
deck of standard ESP testing cards.

The Educators
=============
Besides the experimental and researcher Scientists, the tradition also
includes those who have dedicated their careers to educating others.
Though they run the entire spectrum from bizarre to mundane, there are two
who work in tandem that I'd like to explore.

Wizards
-------
   At an early age, children are often fascinated by science. The wisest
among the sons of ether recognize this as a crucial time: If the children
are encouraged to develop and explore, they may hold this love for science
their entire lives. If on the other hand they are given an image of
science as "nerdy", they may turn away from it and propogate this view
further the older they grow, becoming less and less likely to exceed the
technocratic paradigm in ANY way...even mystickal ways. 
   Therefore, the Scientists commonly known as Wizards (after the
television show Ask Mr. Wizard [Author: actually, I have a poor memory for
names like this. It could be Mr. Wizard's World or some other such
variation] that performed this function) teach children the wonders and
joy of Science. Though they do throw in the occasionally borderline
Etheric Theory, these Etherians are rather controversial in that they
prefer to keep a low profile by staying within the sleeper
(technocratic) paradigm.
   Whether found in an elementary school, or on TV, Wizards are crucial to
the Sons' efforts to alter the technocratic paradigm. Once they lay the
foundation, promising students are taken note of and often exposed to
the teachings of Radical Scientists and the next group in this category,
to judge their reactions to the "better" sciences.

Abilities: Education, Science, Acting

Spheres: Any, really. Mind is highly useful simply for teaching, but
forces and matter magicks are common too as these are the most dramatic
(for younger children) yet explainable magicks.

Foci: Anything even vaguely resembling materials for a demonstration of
scientific principles, like chemical reactions and electric energy
devices.

Examples: Ask Mr. Wizard, Beakman's world, Bill Nye the Science Guy, 3-2-1
contact, occasional episodes of Nextstep and Beyond 2000, and "What will
they think of NEXT?" (another old show I'm not sure about the name of)

Urban Mythologists
------------------
An Urban Myth is a legend that has grown up around some possibly fictional
occurence or device. They are paradigm shattering beliefs in things the
technocracy would rather you did not think about. The Urban Mythologists
are a group of Sons of Ether that create, propogate, debunk, dedebunk,
redebunk, and defend these urban myths. The end result is that everyone
knows about them, and everyone is adamant about believing or disbelieving
them. Regardless of which it is, not only does this inspire doubt in the
average person, but it often inspires doubt in the minds of those on both
sides. In any case, the technocracy's paradigm is stretched just the
tiniest bit for each one of these, and the Union is nearly helpless to
counteract it. Anything they do simply makes the situation worse. Doubt
and a perfectly predictable worldview are not especially compatible
concepts. If these mages use their magick at all outside of coincidental
mind magicks, it would be to provide some falsified (or perhaps real)
evidence to more excitable sleepers, who then proceed to do their job for
them.

Abilities: Subterfuge, Science, Occult, Urban Lore, Intuition, Research

Spheres: Mind (for convincing debates); Life, Matter, or Forces, plus
Prime (to falsify or uncover evidence)

Foci: highly variable

Examples: Alligators in the Sewers, Water burning or 100mpg cars, anything
else from alt.folklore.urban

Heroes
======
This category of mages covers all those who champion the innocents, defend
the world from invaders, or try to eliminate or contain supernatural
threats. Spooooooon!

Pulp Heroes
-----------
These have been covered fairly well by the Sons of Ether tradbook. They
are 50's comic style pulp heroes that use "oriental" mental disciplines,
pop pseudoscience, and a limited array of personalized foci and talismans
to fight some series of menaces and archvillains to champion the cause of
right. Those that rely upon devices tend to be called Gadgeteers. More
than anything else, these heroes rely upon their wits and intelligence to
solve situations.

Abilities: Wits, Intelligence, Culture (for knowing obscure things to save
your ass), Linguistic (for being diplomatic with primitive peoples and
such), etc. Halfway decent attributes all around. Sidekicks come in handy
too.

Spheres: Any. Normally does not use vulgar effects, except from talismans
or weaponry.

Foci: very personalized. typical things to use are weapons, bizarre
devices like antigravity belts, and laboratory computer analyzers.

Examples: Doc Eon, Batman

Superheroes
-----------
These heroes differ from Pulp heroes in that they rely on their magick and
talismans more than they do their wits and other attributes. Often called
by the nickname Spandex, Superheroes are the most likely Ethermages to go
marauder or suffer huge paradox backlashes. Their effects are flashy,
usually vulgar, and always impressive. Exceptions are superheroes who
gained their abilites (perhaps with permanent paradox flaws, like The
Thing from Fantastic Four) through accidents or Scientific Experiments.
Although usually still vulgar, these are a lot less likely to simply
explode from paradox.

Abilities: Science (for expermimental mutations, etc), various others 

Spheres: ANY

Foci: Usually some pseudoscientific explanation like cosmic rays or
radioactive spider bites.

Examples: Spiderman, The Incredible Hulk, The Thing. (An interesting
version of these guys could be made for the OoH or the CC....for example,
Spawn, the Demon, and Avengelyne)

Gung-Ho Psycho Attack Scientists
--------------------------------
(For lack of a better name) These are the scientists who dedicate their
career toward the elimination or containment of some or all segments of
the supernatural population. They can be from any or several of the
various subgroups of the Sons, and unless they are relatively good at
what they do, tend to live short but effective lives. It's not unknown for
these mages to work hand in hand with the Neutralization Specialists of
the Void Engineers, and though this is officially frowned upon on both
sides, is usually beneficial enough for both sides to be fairly common.

Abilities: Research, Occult, various Lores, Technology (to build weapons),
Investigation

Spheres: Forces and Prime are common, Spirit if you plan to deal with
wraiths.

Foci: Weapons, weapons, weapons. Sensing devices of various sorts are also
common.

Examples: Ghostbusters, MiB the comic or movie (well, it's hard to tell,
really), The vampire hunter in the SoE tradbook that has a sunlight ray
pistol.

Ethernauts
==========
There are many explorers in the Sons of Ether. Some explore the Earth's
core, some the oceans, others the umbra or digital web. This category
deals with a subclass of explorers known as the Ethernauts, those who
explore beyond the horizon. These scientists differ mainly in the
methods they use to do so. I plan to write an article on the nature of 
the Ether for these guys, so keep an eye out. They are broken up into
three main categories:

Starjammers
-----------
The mages that literally sail through space in literal space ships. These
mages are barely Etherians at all, and have a lot of ties to the void
engineers.

Abilities: Sailing, Astrogation, shipbuilding

Spheres: any

foci: nautical apparatus of various sorts: charts and compasses for
correspondence, barometers and weather vanes for forces, etc.

Examples: The EtherJammer from the SoE tradbook. A lot of the stuff from
the TSR supplement Spelljammer. From what I understand, also some material
from GDW's Sky Galleons of Mars (I think) which is related to the Space:
1889 material in some way.

Victorians (aka Industrial Victorian Etherism)
----------------------------------------------
These mages explore the universe in Jules Verne-esque Brass and ironclad
vessels resembling nothing so much as giant zeppelins, ornithopters,
bathyscapes and submarine-boats. Heavy looking bolted metal, segmented
hulls, eye-like portholes, and odd finlike protrusions and scallops are
commonplace.

Abilities: Astrogation, technology (to repair the ship's
propeller/whatever), metalworking (to make the darned things), etc.

Spheres: matter is common for building. Entropy is useful to keep the ship
in good order. Forces for defense mechanisms (see the Weirdseeker
description for examples)

Foci: variable

Examples: The Nautilus from the film 20000 Leauges under the sea (any
version, especially the original disney adaptation), various sci-fi
stories from the 60's, art from the SoE tradbook. Stories of Jules Verne
and H. G. Wells

Spaceboys (aka Art Deco)
------------------------
Flying Saucers. Rocket Ships. These gleaming refugees from 50's comics
vision of the future are the hallmark of the spaceboys. These etherians
are the most likely to need a space suit to breathe in a vacuum (though
you'll run across an occasional victorian with a old diving suit), and
generally run around with ray pistols and bubble helmets.

Spheres: variable

Foci: wrist communicators, space helmets, antigravity belts, ultron vision
plates (for correspondence sensing), blaster ray pistol.

Examples: Flash gordon, Buck Rogers (the original novel version),
Forbidden Planet (Robby is a SoE robot if I ever saw one), Lost in space,
Leather Goddesses of Phobos comic book (in amazing 3d! from Infocom) and
game.

Others
======
I don't have time to go into any more right now, but I might later. I also
intended to write up a description of the differences between weird
science, fringe science, radical science, and pseudo science, as well as
through some stuff like occult science (think Magitech or Torg's
Occultech) into the mix. That will have to wait for another article.

For now, enjoy, and may the ether be with you.

Jimmy McKinney, better known as Gregor on IRC - vorlon@iglou.com
Lurker's Guide to Babylon 5: http://www.midwinter.com
Ander's Mage Page:           http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/mage.html
My Homepage:                 http://members.iglou.com/vorlon
--This line exists to be nonconformist with 4 line .sig limits--


