The Stairs of Eor

This is one of the most fragile and beautiful realms ever 
encountered by questing mages from the Traditions, and sadly its 
days are numbered. The forces of chaos and destruction are slowly 
advancing towards its heart.

The realm consists of an immense three-dimensional labyrinth of 
stairs, terraces and bridges - nothing more. Some stairs are rickety 
wood constructions, others are heavy marble, decorated with 
friezes of heroic battles between gods and men and still others 
merely boring concrete staircases with graffiti. The various stairs 
are linked by bridges (everything from perilous suspension bridges 
to great viaducts) and other stairs, forming a complex structure 
hanging suspended in mid air (the reality of the realm doesn¹t care 
the least of the "laws" of stability or that objects need support 
against gravity). Some parts of the realm are dense conglomerates 
of linked structures, while others are so spacious that one cannot 
see anything other than the infinite staircase or bridge one is 
standing on.

There is no ground anywhere, just the immense stair complex and 
the blue, empty space around it. The sun orbits around the realm, 
creating a shady "night" when it is beneath it or above it (since 
structures above or below obscure the light) and a intermittent 
"day" when it is east or west of the observer and shines through the 
realm.

The reality in the realm is forgiving of most magick, which is 
usually coincidental. However, there is one important restriction: it 
is impossible for any physical object to get from one place to 
another without following the stairs and bridges (or climbing under 
them, or swinging in a rope). As soon as it gets over the emptiness 
below it will immediately fall down and vanish. A fired bullet, 
jumping person or flying mage, all will be hit by paradox making 
them fall. Teleportation is only possible if the mage teleports to a 
place he knows the path to, otherwise he will end up somewhere 
else. It is almost as if the realm itself was a labyrinth enforcing its 
structure, and most mages who have studied it are convinced that 
its peculiarities all are linked together in some kind of esoteric map.

Another part of the paradigm is duty. A being with a certain duty 
*cannot* fail from doing it, regardless of the situation. It might not 
succeed, but it has to comply regardless.

The inhabitants, known to themselves as the Ger, are extremely 
different beings. Most are mechanical devices with dozens of 
spidery brass legs and complex clockwork machines as brains (the 
Fe), while some are gelatinous puddles that slither along the stairs 
(the Gy). The Fe are the practical ones, ever repairing the realm and 
checking the flows of Quintessence (or "Eriji" as they call it), while 
the Gy seems to spend all their time exploring it, often carried in 
bowls made of ruby by Fe servants. Both seems to speak to each 
other using telepathy. In addition, a huge proliferation of wines 
grow from special pyramidal boxes at rare places where the Eriji is 
strong; these wines twine around the stairs and bridges, providing 
shade and protection. One kind of wine is especially odd, since its 
fruits are tiny Fe and Gy. They are collected by the Fe and placed in 
the gelatinous bodies of the Gy where they slowly grow until they 
emerge as adult beings. 

In this world there is no need for food and drink, since everyone 
and everything feeds on the invisible streams of Eriji that runs 
along the stairways. The source is the heart of the realm, the Tri-
Stair. This construction consists of three stairs linked together in an 
impossible figure (see the paintings of M. C. Escher for an idea), 
where the Lord of the Realm ceaselessly runs. The Lord is a bizarre 
being, consisting of ten crystal spheres linked by electrical arches 
that rolls, bounces and jumps along the stairs. Should it ever stop, 
the Eriji will cease and the realm will die. 

However, there is a horrible threat to the realm. A long time ago, a 
third kind of being appeared on the Stairs, the Marauders. The 
Marauders accidentally found the realm, and immediately realised 
that it held a great secret. They tried to reach the Tri-Stair, but the 
complexities of the Labyrinth proved too much for them; it was 
almost impossible to find the right way, and the Gy they 
interrogated rather dissolved than told them anything. So they set 
to simplify the labyrinth instead, by destroying the stairs that 
didn¹t lead to their prize. As they did so, parts of the realm began to 
loose their connection to the Tri-Stair and weaken, and when the 
final connection was broken that entire section would break loose 
and fall endlessly down into nothingness beneath the realm. 
Horrified, the Gy and Fe began to try to cut off the Marauders, and 
the War of Falling began. 

Quite soon the marauders tired of it, and moved on. But they left 
their proxies, the Fe-Gy. They took captured Fe, poured captured Gy 
into its cogwheels and then added Tass and Paradox. The resulting 
composite monstrosities, twisted machines dripping living slime, 
took up the fight where the Marauders left. By capturing Ger, they 
swelled their ranks. In response the Fe began to develop new 
weapons and hide the Gy, upsetting the balance even further.

Currently the war is being waged across the entire realm. The Fe-
Gy has captured many of the outermost parts, while the Fe fight to 
keep them from intruding into the core. Large sections have 
already crashed into the abyss below, and it is clear that in order to 
completely eradicate the enemy, the Fe would have to sacrifice 
most of the realm. 


