From: bjm10@cornell.edu (Bryan J. Maloney)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp.storyteller
Subject: Success Stories of the Technocracy
Date: Thu, 14 Nov 1996 18:45:21 -0600
Organization: Cornell University
NNTP-Posting-Host: potato.cit.cornell.edu



FOR INTERNAL CONSUMPTION ONLY

Recently, it has come to our attention that younger members of our
organizations have begun to lose heart in our efforts to make the World
into a better, safer, and saner place.  This memo is to remind project
coordinators and trainers of recent triumphs, triumphs that should be used
to re-enforce the strength of our cause.


1:  Crop Circles laid to rest.  The threat posed to the collective psyche
by a group of Traditionalists in Britain and North America is all but
nullified.  As you recall, a set of "mysterious crop circles" had been
appearing in farmers' fields in these regions.  The culprits were a
conclave of Verbena and renegade Void Engineers, the former altering the
plants, the latter providing information to ensure that the patterns
corresponded to ancient race-memories of Umbral activities.
   We are happy to report that our own specialists were able to lay to
rest the Umbral connection by creating an appropriate "hoax", which we
then publicized.  Two of our operatives then "went public", claiming to
have invented the entire craze as a joke.  Three years of research went
into creating the new reality overlay, and we are pleased to announce that
the techniques we developed to create our own "crop circles" through
purely technological means are indistinguishable from the originals.  Even
ordinary Sleepers can use our means with a great deal of success.  Of
course, our operatives were certain to have no less than two documentaries
made on their "hoax".


2:  "Life on Mars".  We are beginning to re-take the great losses suffered
as a result of the ill-conceived Void Engineer expedition to the Moon. 
The extremely tedious results of the Viking mission did a great deal
towards stifling unacceptable imaginitiveness in the general public.  This
has been further strengthened by "discovery" of life on Mars--life that is
more appropriate for the Paradigm of Sanity than for the dangerous
nonsense that our enemies wish to promulgate.
   On a related note, our operatives were able to ensure that
"Independence Day (ID4)" was just another typical "box-office
extravaganza", long on special effects and "high concept", and short on
philosophical depth.  Kudos to the entertainment branch.  Unfortunately,
it appears that the arch-Fiend Tim Burton has been able to unleash another
threat upon unsuspecting minds--watch out for "Mars Attacks".  We can only
hope that it was less troublesome than the harm that "Nightmare Before
Christmas" did to our efforts.

3:  US Presidential Elections.  The Political Office is to be
congratulated.  It managed to present two equally grey, virtually
indistinguishable candidates to the people of that country.  Either one
would have been acceptable to our needs, althought the antics of the
winner are more likely to keep the attention of the general public
appropriately diverted than the more bland character of the loser would
have done.



The preceding should be sufficient to hold up the morale of most operatives.
