
From nv91-asa@svart.nada.kth.se Fri Jan 14 16:33:08 1994
Date: Fri, 14 Jan 1994 15:26:52 +0100 (MET)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@svart.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Sunlight and Plutonium
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9401141552.A10478-
0100000@svart.nada.kth.se>

The discussions of how to create sunlight or create an atomic blast 
have 
missed an important point about the mage paradigm. True sunlight 
is not 
the correct mixture of electromagnetic energy. The Technomancers 
of 
course want us to believe this, as they say "light is only another 
form 
of energy", thus eliminating the spiritual meaning. Sunlight contains 
the 
essence of life, and thus is anathema to kindred. But a mixture of 
electromagnetic energy is just energy, and not damaging to kindred 
(unless they are Settites or there is *much* energy).

The same thing is true about plutonium. Can plutonium be created 
by 
magick? Using technomancer magick it obviously can be done, but 
is 
plutonium really matter? The technomancer rote Create Plutonium 
is a 
complex ritual performed using nuclear waste and chemicals as foci, 
wherein the (unknowing) acolytes perform ceremonial purifications 
and 
enchantments (refining) to arrive at the end result. This result is 
not 
necessarily a true metal, but may instead be a technomancer 
talisman 
with (perhaps) Forces 5, Entropy 4, Life 4, Matter 3 and Prime 2, 
with a 
material shape as lump of metal. It is activated when enough of it is 
pressed 
together quickly (which necessiates the use of more technomancer 
magick 
to prevent anybody from doing it), releasing the contained prime 
into a 
terrible explosion.

Note that "creating a nuclear explosion by waving your wand" is 
above 
Forces (read the chapter about the sphere), but using technomancer 
reality it is barely possible, using the correct "rote". Plutonium, like 
the 
other heavy elements  are talismans (or quintessence containers) 
for 
nuclear rotes. In fact, how many of the elements are "real"? During 
the 
mythic age there was seven metals, and some other substances 
(like 
antimony and sulphur). The technomancers, especially the renegade 
alchemists who created the science of chemistry, introduced many 
new 
elements. Many of these may have been created by the collective 
belief in 
them, thus making them usable. One alchemist wanted a lifegiving 
element 
(for some reason), and created oxygen using Life 2, Matter 3 and 
Prime 2. 
Then he spread the word. Another wanted a corrosive gas, and 
created fluorine 
using Matter 3, Entropy 3 and prime 2. Like everything else, they 
exist only 
because everybody believes in them and their properties. Before 
the 
introduction of oxygen, nitrogen and the others, Air was purely 
elemental.

Now, back to the original question. To create plutonium by magick, 
it is not 
only necessary to use Matter, you need a lot of Forces (and other 
spheres too). To create fluoric acid, you probably need Entropy and 
so on. 
Note that it is much easier to do within the technomancer paradigm, 
just 
perform the following small rite: drop some sodium fluoride into 
sulphuric 
acid, and watch. Technomantic magick uses the collective belief to 
create 
its effects step by step using small magickal acts (like the 
production 
of sulphuric acid, which is done in many more small steps). The 
same is 
true about sunlight. To hurt a vampire with sunlight either requires 
true 
sunlight (beamed in using correspondence or released from a 
container 
(see my rote "phylakterium of lesser forces")) or the spiritual 
essence 
of sunlight (probably Life and/or Prime to a high level). 

In general, if somebody wants to create an explosion, I would 
require a Forces
effect. A mage may create any amount of "plutonium", but it will 
not explode. 
Matter may be used to create hydrogen and oxygen, but unless 
Forces is used, 
the mixture will not explode. In a way, it is like using Matter to 
freeze 
water (which one of may players did. To Danube. In front of 150 
sleepers 
:-). The water will freeze, due to the increase in melting point, but it 
will remain at the same temperature. To cool it down, you need 
Forces.

It is important to remember that the thing that we usually call 
"matter" 
and "energy" is not always the same in Mage. Sunlight is not just 
light. 
Plutonium is not just another metal. Iron has magickal properties 
against 
faeries (and they are not due to magnetic fields!). Crystals may 
entrap 
spirits. The properties of a substance is dependent on the viewers 
beliefs.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg				  	    Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c+++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y


