Technomantic Computer Tools
(Something to scare Virtual Adepts with)

Bugged Processors (RISPs) (Forces 2 Correspondence 3)
-----------------------------------------------------
Iteration X invented these, but their main user is The New World 
Order. The bugged processors, or "Remote Intercept Standard 
Processors", RISPs, are apparently normal processors. They look like 
a 68000, a 80386 or any other standard processor. They work 
completely the same way. But each RISP have a individual 
identification code. When the technomancers send this code using 
their sophisticated communications technology, the RISP will 
respond from anywhere in the world. It will immediately link up to 
a technomancer computer, which will emulate the processor. The 
user will never suspect anything, but all information passing 
through the processor will appear in the technomancer computer. 
The technomancers can take control over every machine with a 
RISP inside.

The New World Order has used RISP-technology to infiltrate most 
government and military systems. Almost any information stored 
in these systems can be retrieved, records can be altered or 
deleted. Iteration X has begun experimenting with sending not only 
information into the RISPs, but instead using the link to send high 
voltage currents into the computer, destroying the computer and 
killing the operator. 

Fortunately, the technomancers have not yet infiltrated everything 
with RISPs. While they certainly would like to have a RISP in every 
piece of machinery on Earth, it would not be very useful. The 
amount of information would be to big to handle, even with the 
biggest computers in Autocthonia. Even today there are millions of 
RISPs, and most of them sits unused in personal computers, 
washing machines and stereos. Most of these have been simple 
tests of the technology, using infiltrators at Intel and Motorola to 
spread the RISPs. Since the technomancers only have a very 
general idea of what each RISP is used for and where each RISP is, 
they have not yet been used for anything.

Another problem is security. The paranoids in The New World 
Order do not like the thought of having RISPs everywhere. While 
they certainly would like to have *total* access to every computer 
in the world, they are suspicious of Iteration X. What if the 
Iterations use the RISPs to infiltrate New World Order? Or even 
more horrible, what if the Virtual Adepts got wind of the RISPs and 
used them to infiltrate the technocracy's computers?

There also exists RIMUs (Remote Intercept Memory Units) and 
AISP (Autonomous Intercept Standard Processors). The AISPs are 
designed to constantly scan for certain patterns, like the words 
"Virtual Adept", and contact the main computers if this appears. 
Unfortunately, the AISPs are not very advanced yet, and can only 
scan for very simple patterns (They would fail against "Vrtual 
Adpt"). Iteration X scientists is working on this problem.

RISP Scanner (Forces 2 Correspondence 3)
----------------------------------------
This is a small device, looking like a calculator (often camouflaged 
as such). It will send a signal to a certain RISP which responds with 
a signal. The scanner will use this information to track the distance 
to the RISP. Some scanners can send signals to every RISP in the 
vicinity, thus finding unexpected RISPS. Using these scanners, New 
World Order is tracking interesting computers to find their owners. 
Even if the only find an uninteresting RISP in a stereo, they will 
enter its position, use and identification number into their gigantic 
database over known RISPs. You can never tell what use it could 
have one day.

Pattern recognition expert system (Spirit 4)
--------------------------------------------
The expert system is a small AI, designed to search computers for 
certain patterns. They are used to track people, find intruders or 
anything else in the area of pattern recognition. For example, the  
wants to know if someone is a mage. The expert system 
immediately begins to collect all available information, comparing it 
to known mages and making assumptions on its own. For example, 
if the person has been seen with known mages, has won on the 
lottery 100% more than average, has an almost perfect medical 
record and is known to be regarded as an eccentric, then the expert 
will inform the user that it is 88% chance for the person to have an 
awakened avatar, and 65% chance for him to be a true mage, given 
this information. 

These Expert systems are constantly tracking certain people the 
technocracy have become interested in, noticing if something odd 
happens. They also search for intruders in their systems, nodes, 
breaches of the Gauntlet and general weirdness.

New World Network (Artefact)
----------------------------
This is the New World Order main computer network. It contains 
not only technomantic computers, but also government, military 
and commercial computers infiltrated by the New World Order. 
Using this network the technomancers can quickly access almost all 
information about someone or something.

It is a deeply paranoid network, filled with security checks and 
expert systems constantly on their guard for intruders. All 
information is encrypted. The whole network is slow and 
cumbersome, but very secure. Still, many technomancers suspect 
that there may be trapdoors or security holes left by Virtual 
Adepts.

Inside the Network the user can search for information about 
anything, but every access is logged. Expert systems scan for users 
who display unusual interests, especially in areas outside their 
normal work. If the New World Order find an intruder, they 
immediately send the Men In Black to the intruders location, send 
net-spiders into his computer and reorganise the areas accessed. If 
the intruder have found names or addresses for agents, they are 
immediately moved or eliminated ("No security is better than 
compromised security" is an old New World Order saying).


