Sleepwalkers (Mind 4 Correspondence 3)

Another spooky technomancer idea, developed in a joint project 
between the Progenitors and Iteration X for use by New World 
Order. Using small Remote Control Chips (RCCs) inserted into the 
brain of a victim, the technomancers can read the victims senses, 
and take control over the victims body and mind. He doesn't need 
to know he have the chips until they are used. Each chip also 
contains a tracking device and a suicide unit, which will release a 
powerful acid which will make the chip melt and kill its host. An 
Autopsy will only reveal a massive brain haemorrhage.

Using RCCs the New World Order have created many sleepwalkers. 
They are quite normal people, unaware of that anything is wrong 
about them. When the technomancers decide to, they simply take 
control over them, using them as remote controlled robots for 
assassination, spying or sabotage. Often their senses are fed into the 
technomancers surveillance systems. 

Subliminals (Mind 2)
A less brutal method is used by the Syndicate, which uses 
subliminal control on the masses. By carefully entering hidden 
messages, the sleepers are made to like or dislike certain things. For 
example, its quite easy to make many people feel a bit bored or 
distracted when confronted with information the Syndicate doesn't 
want them to understand (this is called "spreading fnords" by the 
Virtual Adepts). 

Posthypnotic Suggestions (Mind 4)
This is a more direct means of control. The technocracy agents 
simply drug their victim, or hypnotise him while he is sleeping. 
They can then program his mind with secret commands, change 
memories and modify his personality. They often enter certain 
secret codes, which will return him to a hypnotic state when they 
are said again. Using this on a large scale have given the 
Technocracy thousands of unknowing agents, who will do their 
bidding, spy for them or act as expendable pawns. For example, a 
receptionist can be made to report if a certain person enters the 
building and then forget it, or normal bureaucrats can be turned 
into assassins by a simple phone call. 

Anti Magic Defence System (Prime 1)
This system is used to prevent mages from using magick or 
transporting quintessence in restricted areas. They are mostly 
wired up to alarms, security doors and stun gas delivery systems, 
but other (nastier) systems can be connected. The AMDS consists of 
arrays of detectors, which detect flows of quintessence. A surge of 
quintessence is reported to a central unit, which sound the alarm 
and immediately activate defence systems.

A classic use is for directing Subsonic Pain Inductors (SPIs), small 
devices which send a subsonic beam at a human target and induce 
agonising pain (Life 4, damage pain only). The NWO Re-education 
division uses cells with AMDS-SPI equipment to keep mages under 
control. Each use of magick brings instant agony, and the threshold 
sensitivity is slowly increased, forcing the mage to stop using 
magick even at a subconscious level. 

