
From nv91-asa@buzzcocks.nada.kth.se Fri Jan  7 21:49:27 1994
Date: Fri, 7 Jan 1994 21:18:18 +0100 (MET)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@buzzcocks.nada.kth.se>
Sender: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@buzzcocks.nada.kth.se>
Reply-To: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@buzzcocks.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Creative Technomancers?
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9401072129.A12801-
0100000@buzzcocks.nada.kth.se>

I think Paul is right, the technocracy is fundamentally anti-creative.
Creativity is all about breaking the old rules and preconceptions of
what is possible, something the Technocracy definitely want to 
discourage.
But at the same time it needs creativity to solve its problems. In 
my
opinion, the technomancers want good solutions, and do not care if 
they
are creative as long as they work. In fact, they prefer to reuse old
methods (compare this to the codified methods of mathematics and 
physics),
since this will strengthen their own paradigm. An individual 
technomancer
should ideally believe completely in the technocracy reality and 
able to 
solve any problem completely by using technocracy methods. 
Creative 
solutions may work, but are frowned upon. This is the same as in 
any 
traditon: a member of the Celestial Chorus who solves problem by 
summoning demons may be praised for solving the problem but 
severely 
critiqued by the way he did it. The important thing is how much 
the 
individual mage is with the traditions view of Ascension.

The Technocracy must balance itself between to much creativity 
(contrary 
to their philosophy and against their idea of Ascension) and to little 
(which will make it impossible to solve all problems). Perhaps they 
have 
solved it by "doublethinking", at the same time accepting and 
rejecting 
creativity. 

In my view the technomancers can be divided into several groups:

Pawns	These people are unawakened, knows almost nothing 
about anything.
	They work at the lowest levels, suspecting that something 
strange is 
	going on, but are smart enough not to inquire. The 
Technocracy 
	discourages unneccessary creativity, but quite subtly (to 
avoid 
	arousing suspicion) The accountant at BMI Investments or the 
man in 
	the car pool of the MIBs is in this category.

Tools	These people definitely know that weird things are 
going on, they 
	may even suspect something about whats going on. While 
unawakened,
	their work involves quite extraordinary things. The 
Technocracy
	actively discourages curiosity and creativity. The workers in 
the
	factories in Null B and Autocthonia is in this category.

Assistants	The assistants know much about what is going on, and 
work
	together with the true technomancers. They are quite loyal 
and do 
	their work as they should. They are probably quite uncreative 
and 
	rulebound, doing all the dirty work. Here are the bureaucrats 
working 
	for New World Order, engineers helping Iteration X design 
new machines 
	and the personal assistents to high ranking technomancers. 
These are
	probably acolytes.

Low Level Technomancers		These are the techomancers 
responsible for such
	mundane things as supervision of installations, simple design 
and 
	planning, teaching and all the other myriad tasks that require 
a mages 
	attention. While they should behave according to the rules, 
they should
	also accomplish their tasks, something that may require 
creativity.

High Level Technomancers	These are responsible for the long 
range 
	planning, whole projects or the design of new scientific 
principles. 
	It is these technomancers that meet on the symposium. These 
mages 
	must have some ability to find new ways to solve a problem, 
or they will 
	be removed as inefficient. 

Note that the symposium seems to be quite democratic (one 
convention one 
vote? How the conventions decide internally may be another 
question. How 
are new conventions created and old removed?). Perhaps the 
Technocracy 
has partially solved the problem by allowing radicalism in some 
conventions (probably the Void Engineers, Progenitors and 
Iteration X in 
falling order), and having the conservatives in other conventions. 
Thus 
the good ideas can be developed, and bad ideas can be stopped by 
the 
other conventions. 



----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg				  	    Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c+++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y

