The Blood of the Tenth Beast

At the dawn of time, great beasts from before creation ravaged the 
land, destroying everything within grasp. So terrible were these 
beings of chaos and death that only the greatest of heroes could 
defeat them: Tiamat, Typhon, Medusa, Hydra and Ymir. But one of 
the beasts were more horrible than the others, the being known 
simply as the Tenth Beast. It was known to have existed even 
before the chaos-creator, and its power was immense. At the same 
time it was also the most cunning, hiding in the darkness of the 
silent air before striking the land beneath with unnatural death.

But one night it was defeated in a great battle by a hero whose 
name has been stricken from all records for his deeds. The battle 
lasted from sunset to dawn, and finally the unnamed hero defeated 
the Tenth Beast by tricking it to look into the dawn, and drove a 
wooden pole into its heart. As the rays of the rising sun revealed 
the carnage, the hero cut the heart loose from the cadaver. He 
saluted the sun god and in triumph began to drink the blood as the 
tradition prescribed. But some enemies never die completely, and 
especially not the Great Beasts. As the blood began to pour in his 
veins, it tainted his soul and filled his spirit with power. 

With a scream of anguish he cursed the day, the sun-god who 
looked on impassively and the other men who had not come to his 
help when he needed it. His blasphemies were so powerful that the 
gods themselves heard them and were angered, and finally the 
sun-god himself threw down his flames against the mortal. The 
land was scorched, and the corpse of the Beast flamed like a 
bonfire. But as the body of the hero died, the blood of the beast 
grew stronger. It hid him beneath the ground and began to restore 
his flesh just like it once had done to the Tenth Beast. 

Thus the Nameless One emerged from the shadows, forever having 
to avoid the gaze of the sun-god and his flames that would devour 
him as they once almost did. The blood of the Beast gave him 
immense power and restored his health and youth eternally, but he 
always had to fear the stake through the heart just like the Beast. 
But the worst part was the eternal struggle between the remains of 
the hero and the blood of the beast.

It is said that the Great Beasts never can die, only reform. Ymir was 
remade into Midgard, Tiamat into the world. The blood of Medusa 
fell into the sea and spawned Pegasus, and Typhon still roars 
beneath mount Etna. In the same way the Tenth Beast still lives 
within the veins of the descendants of the Nameless One, slowly 
gaining power and nourishment by preying on the mortals. And one 
day they blood of the beast will begin to gather together, until it is 
finally incarnated in a single body. And then the Tenth Beast will 
be reborn again. 


