There have been a lot of attempts to reconcile Mage cosmology with 
Werewolf and vice versa. I think this is the wrong approach. There 
are a lot of mutually exclusive cosmologies which may explain all or 
parts of the WoD. What the metaphysics of magick says is that they 
can all be true, to different observers. Perhaps the oracles have 
even realised that the metaphysics is subject to belief too. 

Here is yet another cosmology, to really confuse things. It is based 
upon the idea in Kid Eternity, which in turn is partly based on 
Gnosticism:

In the beginning there was the Fall. Some parts of the original Unity 
fell, was pushed or choose to descend into manifestation.  Some 
parts remained unified, and choose to retain themselves. Some 
fragmented further, resulting in a cascade of spiritual descent. 
When some of the entities in the Fall tried to return to the Unity, 
they found the way barred by impenetrable barriers, the ring-
pass-nots. They were trapped. Spirit became trapped in the matter 
it had (perhaps unwittingly) created, subject to reincarnation and 
imperfection. 

Most of the fallen sparks of divinity quickly forgot their origin as 
they struggled in the ceaseless wheel of reincarnation. Some 
retained a weak memory of the Fall. Some beings thought they 
were thrown down here as a punishment, and decided to try to 
destroy or at least disturb the Creation of the Highest. These 
became known as demons or evil spirits. Some beings thought that 
they could make the Highest to remove the ring-pass-nots and let 
them return if they pleased It. Of these beings, some believed that 
they had been sent down here to protect and repair the Creation of 
the Highest. They did their best to keep the Creation as it was, and 
tried to suppress any change. The leaders of these beings became 
known as the Lords of Order. Another group of beings thought that 
if they remade the Creation into a gift ("Of course the Highest 
doesn't need the gift, but it is the thought that matters." to quote 
one of them.) These beings planted seeds of discord and revolution, 
trying to hasten the evolution of the World until it became the 
beautiful gift they had planned. These beings became known as the 
Lords of Chaos, and the Lords of Order hated them.

Other beings didn't care, and decided to do the best of the situation. 
Some retired to comfortable realms to satisfy their own pleasures. 
Others played around, on different scales. The fey play around 
happily, having mostly forgotten their true origin. Other beings 
wanted to be worshipped, and became gods or demons. Still other 
beings manipulated the world in different ways, to suit their own 
often incomprehensible needs and desires. Some beings couldn't 
stand the weight of knowledge, and choose to fragment into myriad 
of shards to escape into the merciful sleep of eternal reincarnation. 
Perhaps Humanity and the Kindred were created in this way.

Today the world is still torn between the different factions of 
beings which try to influence it. The Lords of Chaos started early 
with using humanity to fulfil their plan. They have systematically 
tried to make it evolve towards higher levels, to gain knowledge of 
the Truth. Mages are those humans who have reached the highest, 
and started to shape the world in their own. Since the Lords believe 
in chaos and restless creativity, they encourage different traditions 
to compete with each other. The Lords of Order saw the threat, and 
are trying to use the Technocracy to halt evolution, and create a 
static, perfect world like a diamond. The Lords want to put every 
mage back to sleep. Other beings are also working behind the 
scenes, perhaps less powerful and united, but nevertheless 
important. The forces of destruction and perversion are doing their 
best, and have found that the struggle between the Lords suit them 
just fine. Strange beings are still trying to rule their corners of 
reality.

The goal of a mage (but he doesn't know it at first) is to truly 
awaken, to reclaim his lost heritage as a shard of the Unity. As his 
Arete increases, he will slowly awaken through the great sleep. The 
Lords of Chaos will try to guide him towards them, while other 
factions also want him, or will try to stop him. When Arete reaches 
10, he will awaken fully, and become what he once was, a pure 
shard of the Unity (or rather, as pure as anything down here can 
ever become). The true Ascension will be when the ring-pass-nots 
are destroyed somehow, and the whole of Creation will joyfully 
return into the Unity. The Avatar-background is a measure of how 
big shard of the unity his Avatar is.
