Temporal Variations of Paradigm Rigidity

Sirs, after reading "Spatial Variations of 
Paradigm Rigidity" by Dr. Edmund Hegring 
[Paradigma, August 1993], I have 
undertaken a preliminary study of 
temporal variations of Paradigm Rigidity. 
The results so far is promising. I have 
found a periodic diurnal variation and 
traces of a yearly variation. During the day, 
the Paradigm Rigidity Coefficient R is fairly 
constant. During the night, it decreases, and 
reaches a minimum at about 3-4 in the 
morning. This is the time when most 
reports about hauntings, UFOs, fortean 
phenomena and synchronities are 
reported. 

A possible explanation is that the Paradigm 
Field created by non-Awakened people is 
weakened due to the fact that many are 
asleep. The lack of observers to enforce the 
Field, and the destabilising influences of a 
large number of dreaming people seems to 
be another major contribution. According 
to some theories among the Verbena [Klaus 
Rechtmann, private communication], the 
human mind is especially suggestible 
during this time.

There seems to exist a yearly variation too, 
but it is strongly localised to certain dates. 
These seem to correspond to traditionally 
holy or unholy days like the solstices, Yule 
and Sabbaths. The Technomancers have 
tried to defuse these dates by moving 
holidays to them, thereby making people 
ignore their original meaning and thus 
creating a Paradigm Renormalisation. But 
there are still many traces (often 
subconscious or folkloristic) of their 
original meanings, which enforce them.

During a Paradigm Rigidity Minimum, the 
barriers to the non-physical world seems 
to weaken, allowing different phenomena 
to enter physical reality. Typical 
phenomena encountered are often quite 
non-logical, and defy classification. Their 
influence on paradigm alteration theory 
remains to be seen. Another application is 
the timing of sensitive experiments. During 
a Minimum, the problem of Paradigma 
interference are minimised (although other 
interfering effects may increase)

Dr Wolfgang Riesel, Heidelberg.
