From nv91-asa@tigris.nada.kth.se Tue Sep  6 12:33:10 1994
Date: Tue, 6 Sep 1994 12:10:25 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@tigris.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Time Rotes
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9409061225.B11450-0100000@tigris.nada.kth.se>

Time Rotes


Scent of the Hounds of Tindalos (Time 1)

The mage concentrates himself and try to feel when
something happened (or will happen) by imagining it and
different times it might have happened at. The mage will
feel when he gets closer to the right time as the "scent"
gets stronger. This can for example be used to find out
when a building was built or when a clock stopped.  It
cannot tell why or where something happened. This rote is
named for the legendary paradox beings the Hounds of
Tindalos, which ruthlessly hunt down mages who interfere
with Time. They have the ability to find the mage
regardless of the time he exists in, and will appear out
of nearby corners to destroy him. 


Sense Angled Time (Time 1 Entropy 1)

Time does not always flow smoothly, sometimes there are
corners and discontinuities in it for unknown reasons.
These corners are dangerous times, since the defences of
reality and casualty are briefly removed. Powerful beings
of the Deep Umbra and dangerous weirdness may appear, and
many momentous events occur at these times. This makes it
especially important to know them beforehand.  The
Technocracy calls the "Bifurcation Points", and spend
much energy neutralizing them or manipulating events
around them. 


Find Connection (Time 1 Correspondence 1)

This rote is used by mages to find the secret links
between seemingly disparate events. A mage can read a
newspaper, and realise that the current conflicts on
Balkan are linked to the disappearance of several
prominent engineers in England, or that the fluctuations
of the stock market have been strongly influenced by the
person in the border of that picture. He might not know
how or why, but he will see the links. 


What Time is it? (Time 1 Mind 2)

The mage disturbs the sense of time of a person, so he
will think that more or less time have passed. He can
make the victim think that its still four or that its
already six, until the victim watches his watch (which
clever mages can manipulate using Matter). 


Follow Blood (Life 1 Time 2) <Order of the Eternal Dawn>

The mage touches some blood from someone. The result is
that the mage gains physiological knowledge about the
owner, his age, condition, appearance, sicknesses,
markings and so on. By tracing the blood backwards, the
mage can learn how the owner was when he was younger. The
mage may also continue the tracing back to the owners
parents, and their parents, and so on. A single trait may
be followed back to its source. 


Astrological Prediction (Time 2 Prime 1 Spirit 1)

The Order of Hermes is the master among the traditions in
matters of astrology and planning. One major use of
astrology has been to find the most suitable time to
perform magick, by studying the conjunctions of the
planets and stars. The astrologer analyses the act of
magick, determines which planets rule it (for example,
Prime is ruled by the Sun while Spirit is ruled by the
Moon) and then tries to find the best conjunctions.
Magick of the right type performed then will be more
powerful and safe. 

[ The number of successes determine how powerful
conjunctions the mage has found (a conjunction with 4
successes will decrease the difficulty for that type of
magick with 4). However, the more powerful conjunctions
are much more rare, so the mage may have to wait for an
inordinate amount of time before the right moment, or use
lesser conjunctions (by removing extraneous successes).
One success means the astrologer has found a minor event,
occurring within a day (generally a suitable planetary
hour). 2 successes occur within a week (generally a
suitable planetary day). 3 successes occur within a month
(often influenced by moon-phase). 4 within a year and 5
within a decade (and so on).  ]


Summon Timekeeper (Time 2 Spirit 2)

One of the more unusual kind of elementals is the
time-elementals, known in the Cult of Ecstasy as
timekeepers. They seems to be the spirits which keep
track of everything, making sure things happen at the
right time for the right reasons. They seldom manifest
physically, preferring to communicate through
coincidences and physical phenomena like the sound of a
ticking clock. The timekeepers know everything about what
has happened and will happen, and may give information to
the mage as long as it will not cause any disturbances of
time. If the mage disrupts time too much, they might
become very dangerous servants of paradox. Persistent
rumours tell that they have a lord known as Chronos, the
Master Timekeeper. Some mages speculate that Chronos may
be Wrinkle. 


Peer into the beyond (Time 2 Entropy 2) 
<Necromancers, by Robert Kirkpatrick>

The Necromancers use this rote in order to see the
outcome of very specific actions.  What the rote does is
allow the caster to look into the future, but be able to
filter out any unnecesary random future events, so that
he can see one specific outcome. 

The Necromancer essentially asks a specific question
about the future, and gets a yes or no answer.  Common
questions include, "Oh, mighty spirits, I beseech you, is
a page of the Necromicon behind this door?" or "If I get
into a fight with this Mage, will I die?" The outcomes
always occur, but not necessarily the way the Mage
thought.  For instance, in the first example, a page may
be behind the door, but it could be buried under 3,000
feet of sand, or in the second example, the Mage may not
die, but may be teleported in a Paradox dimension. 

Correspondence Magick must be combined with this rote, in
order to ask questions about a place the Necromancer
currently is not, like "will I die if I go to Egypt
tomorrow?"

[The number of successes on the Magickal effect roll is
the number of questions the Mage can ask about a
particular scene.  The Mage cannot recast the spell to
gather any information that might be beneficial to him
for that same scene.  For instance, before a battle, the
Necromancer asks a few questions about it's outcome: 
will i die, will this particular attack kill him, etc. 
He cannot later ask "will my friend die," if it's about
the same battle.  Also, the Mage cannot ask anything that
is philosophically vague, such as "is there a God?" This
will occur in one aggravated wound per number of
successes, plus Paradox.]


Detect Pattern (Correspondence 3 Entropy 1 Time 2)
<Forecasters>

By comparing events with each other and running
sophisticated algorithms, the Forecasters of the
Technocracy can detect patterns which normally would seem
random. They can predict how the patterns will develop,
trace their history and often discover who is behind it. 
Typical applications are scanning for Tradition activity
or crime. 


Track Manipulations (Time 2 Entropy 2) <Forecasters>

This is continuously done by the Technocracy to see if
other groups attempt to manipulate the trends. The
Forecasters carefully analyse events to see if they have
been manipulated by someone, using their computers to
search for patterns. The difficulty lies in the fact that
most manipulators are very careful, and the results are
seldom apparent until years later. 


Keening of the Banshee (Time 2 Entropy 1)

This rote (also known as the Sight of the Valkyries) is
surprisingly simple, but still very rarely used. By
following the threads of fate forward, the mage can feel
where they end. This can be used to predict how long
anything will remain in existence; inanimate objects,
living beings, people and even love itself. Most mages
prefer not to use this rote at all. The only exceptions
are (of course) the Euthanatos, who simply regard it as a
useful tool or a very powerful demonstration of the total
power of Entropy. They cast the bones and interpret their
patterns. 

[ The rote has some limitations. It cannot predict
exactly where something will end, just a time of great
entropy. Sometimes people survive just barely, and go on
living. Awakened beings also automatically disturb the
predictions by their actions, especially if they have
Time or Entropy themselves (increase difficulty). If the
rote is used on a mage, he will automatically try to
subconsciously countermagick it. ]


MASTER NINJA TIME ROTE (Time 3, Mind 1, Entropy 1) 
<Sons of Jupiter, by Jack Dracula>

Just the thing for the clever coyote, this Rote can turn
anyone into a Master Ninja. It was first used by Glen
Manning, a Mystery Science Theatre fan, who wanted to
fight just like the ninjas in bad martial arts flicks. 

[Time slows down for the Mage, who then can use the Dim
Mak effect to his the best possible spot on the enemy.
Also, absurdly silly but effective dodges are possible,
since the attacker is moving in slow motion; -2 to all
dodge target numbers.]


Temple of Love (Time 3 Correspondence 2)

While the mage uses tantric sex-magick with a partner
inside a circle of lit incense-sticks, the time outside
the participants slow down while their own time
accelerates. The result is a zone of relative safety
around the mage for a short while. The difference in the
passage of time is so abrupt it creates a kind of
barrier, which seeks to delay passing objects or
personas. Most such effects are coincidental, like having
enterers stumble, doors getting stuck or shoelaces
suddenly appearing untied. The mage will also
instinctively know well before when somebody will try to
enter, and have ample time to prepare. 


Resting (Life 3 Time 3)

The mage speeds up sleep for somebody, so he will awake
rested sooner. A pleasurable side-effect is that dreams
will be very beautiful and intense. Very popular among
members of the Cult of Ecstasy. 


Prolong Life (Life 3 Time 3)

By selectively slowing down the processes of ageing, many
Cultists remain young and healthy despite their hectic
lives. In fact, most users of this rote perform it by
simply living as pleasurably as possible. 


Faint (Life 2 Time 3)

The Cult of Ecstasy don't like to hurt people, but
sometimes they have to. This rote was perfected by a Lady
de Joen during the 18th century, who sometimes had the
problem of being surprised in embarrassing circumstances
by the appearance of the wives of her lovers. However, by
slowing down the blood supply to their brains, she could
easily make them coincidentally faint. And people often
forget what the saw just before fainting... 


Preserve (Time 3 Entropy 3 Prime 2 Matter 1/Life 1)

A recurring problem for pattern-mages is that many of
their creations don't last well or begin to dissolve.
This is especially the problem with the creation of
living beings. One solution is to seek to restore their
patterns and slow down their ageing. Some mages have even
begun using it on all their creation to perfect them once
they are created. 

[ The successes of this rote will be added to the
original successes to determine the new duration of the
pattern, if there are more than five the pattern will
exist indefinitely. The rote must involve the relevant
sphere to 1 to work.]


Waste Time (Time 3 Entropy 3/4)

Sometimes nothing seems to get done, regardless of how
much you work or plan noting worthwhile comes out of it.
This effect can be created by a judicious use of Entropy
to make time less "fresh" and useful to people. Some
Cultists use it to sabotage the workings of bureaucracies
or other organisations by making the employees
ineffective and slow. By using even more powerful Entropy
magick time can even be destroyed; the victims will
notice that a certain period has passed but cannot
remember anything of it, and nothing seems to have been
done either. 


Tantric Meditation (Time 3 Prime 2)

One of the more important methods of tantric yoga is to
have intercourse, but avoid orgasm. This is continued as
long as possible, resulting in a powerfully altered state
of mind. The main use is of course theurgical, to
experience the true White Light, but some cultists have
found a more practical, theurgical use of the practice. 
The tantric Masters of course disapprove of it, but its
useful nevertheless. During the state of no-time which
develop, the mage(s) can weave new magickal effects but
just as orgasm is delayed, delay their expression until
the final moment. This gives them the ability to create
extremely complex magick which is released in a single
instant, or strengthen magick greatly. 

[ In order to work, the participants must succeed in
reaching tantric trance, using stamina + meditation with
a difficulty of 6. The successes can be used to lower
difficulties for magick in this state as described in the
Book of Shadows. The rote requires prime to sustain the
etheric patterns of the magick even when the mage directs
his or her will to other purposes in the ceremony. ]


Time is of the Essence (Time 3 Mind 1)

One problem many people have is that they become stressed
or feel they don't have enough time to think in tense
situations. The Cult of Ecstasy has a reputation of
having many great improvisers or wits, and this rote is
one of the reasons. By simply focusing on the present,
the mage can speed his own thoughts to great speed while
appearing to be acting normal. 

[ The rote will not give the mage any increased speed in
movement or other physical actions (like looking at
something else). For practical purposes, the world seems
to have slowed down into slow- motion. Time is slowed at
the rate normal for Time 3. Alternatively, in a
live-roleplaying situation, each success will give the
mage a minute extra to think over his actions, solve
problems or use magick. ]


Delay Paradox (Time 3/4 Prime 2)

Paradox Backlashes are so great disturbances in reality
that any mage with Prime and Time will feel them
approaching well in advance. So far nobody has ever been
able to avert them, but they can be delayed, giving the
mage a chance at least to prepare himself. He simply
twists the time around the approaching backlash, delaying
it. This is of course utterly vulgar, and will fuel it
even more. Powerful mages have experimented with Time 4 to
freeze Paradox completely, but it will inevitably escape
and become a Time-backlash of almost mythical strength. [
Botches are *very* nasty. Handling Paradox is inherently
paradoxical, and this rote may even disturb the flow of
Time.  Caution is advised. The number of turns the mage
can delay the Paradox is equal to his successes if he uses
Time 3. If Time 4 is used, double the strength of the
Backlash and use the normal duration table. ]


Compile Virtual Computer (Time 4 Correspondence 2 Prime 2
Forces 1)

The Virtual Adepts have always been interested in
applying the ideas of technology and science to magick.
One early development was the discovery that magickal
effects could be delayed until certain conditions had
been fulfilled. Since this is essentially the same
principle as the transistor, they began to develop
magickal electronics. By joining together many separate
"transistors" and using magickal events instead of
electricity, they were able to first build immaterial
digital devices and finally the virtual computers.  These
computers are built out of magickal patterns, which
interact in complex ways. They require no electricity,
since they use causality itself as their building
material (some Adepts claim that space-time really is
built out of a network of information processing units,
and the virtual computers just are man-made imitations). 

They have no limitations on speed, size or processing
power except paradox and the skill of their creators.
This turned out to be the greatest obstacle, since the
creation of the ultracomplex patterns requires extremely
skilled programmers. It was however somewhat simplified
when a team of Adepts developed the first compiler, which
could compile sourcecode in electronic form into a
running virtual program-pattern. These compilers are
major feats of magick and programming, and still require
extremely skilled adepts, but its no longer a feat worthy
an AI to create a virtual computer. 

[ Virtual computers are compiled into extremely complex
patterns of causal connections, which interface with the
normal world through the Digital Web. The patterns has to
be very exact, otherwise the system will quickly unravel.
Interfacing with the physical world has proven to be too
prone to paradox, which wrecks the intricate patterns in
a matter of minutes. However, one elegant application
which works is expanding the capacity of a normal Adept
computer, which is often coincidental or at least doesn't
attract attention. Virtual memory can hold unlimited
information and virtual processors can process nearly
infinite amounts of data. There are persistent rumours
that several experimental virtual computers have achieved
consciousness and Ascended. ]


Petrify (Time 4 Life 4 Matter 2)

This is the classic petrifaction rote, a staple of the
Verbena and also rather popular among some of the more
drastic Cultists. The victim is literally turned into
stone, lasting forever (or at least a long time). Some
Sons of Ether have a stasis rote, based on Forces
instead, locking victims inside fields of no-time, but
the function is the same. These rotes can be supplied
with conditions which will dispel them, as a kiss from
prince charming or a pre-set time. 

[ The rote can be used without Time, but then it won't
last as long as when the Avatar of the victim is frozen
into stasis. ]


Weather Conserves (Time 4 Forces 2/4)

An ancient Verbena rote. The mage boils together a broth
during a thunderstorm, hurricane or sunny day and lets it
absorb the weather, which is stored in a jar, bottle or
sack. If it is opened, the weather will come streaming
out again. This can prove useful as a weapon, as in the
case of Mother Huntington's Pickled Lightening or
practical as a diversion (like her Fog Preserves or Hail
with Cinnamon). 


Strengthen Destiny (Time 5 Prime 2 Entropy 2
Correspondence 2)

Some of the most powerful cultists are not content merely
to watch the flow of history, they want to direct it.
When they see a tendency they like, they perform
elaborate ecstatic rituals to fuel the causal chains
supporting it and increase the chance it will grow.  This
will help the development through random events and "the
flow of history". Some cultists claim that Woodstock was
such and ritual to fuel the whole of the 60's. Others
whisper that the Technocracy is doing the same thing on a
global scale, to ensure their total victory. 


Time Loop (Correspondence 2, Spirit 4, Time 5) 
<Time Lords, by Mark Kinney>

This rote is used when something so disruptive to the
timeline is being used or created.  This rote separates
their world from the rest of the timeline, so that their
influence will not effect the flow of history. 

[This rote raises the Gauntlet of a target Realm to 10,
essentially cutting it off from the Umbra.  There is
presently no way to actually destroy


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg			 	  	     Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se   http://www.nada.kth.se/~nv91-asa/main.html
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c++++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y




