Some Correspondence and Entropy Rotes
-------------------------------------

Where Am I? (Correspondence 1)
The mage will know his position relative another, known place 
(Like his home or his starting point). When the mage moves away 
from this place he will still know where it is, and feel direction and 
distance to it.

Beacon of Jeron ( Correspondence 1 Prime 2)
The mage "marks" an object, which he aftarwards will be able to 
find (just like the place in "Where Am I?"). Members of Order of 
Hermes draw a pentagram around the object using the Seal, while 
Virtual Adepts enter information about the object into their 
computer, which will keep track of it.

Summon Demon Process (Correspondence 1 Spirit 2)
The mage summons one of the spirits of technology and 
communication from a network of some kind. The spirits are quick, 
efficient entities who know almost everything about their own 
medium, but unfortunately not much about anything else (Many 
spirits deny the existence of anything outside their network) The 
spirits can for example tell the mage about where information has 
been transmitted or stored, but nothing about what the information 
means, since it is incomprehensible to them. Virtual Adepts 
summon and talk to these spirits using query-languages or their 
own weird dialect of LISP. 

Window Manager (Correspondence 2)
The Adept opens a window on his screen, showing another place. He 
can see and hear what is going on there, and move his vantage 
point, zoom in and out, store images and othervise transform the 
image. Using a Virtual Reality the mage can even move around in a 
virtual copy of the place, seeing, hearing and feeling things (But he 
still cannot interact with the place).

1-800-QUINTESSENCE (Correspondence 2 Prime 1)
This rote was invented by virtual adepts having problems with 
getting quintessence when they were far from their nodes. 
However, by using the ordinary phone-network or internet to call a 
computer or phone near their home node, the Adepts can connect to 
it and absorb needed quintessence. This rote has been expanded to 
higher levels, using the networks as conduits for quintessence to 
their uses. 

Aleph (Correspondence 2 Mind 3)
The Adept points his terminal towards a victim, and makes it 
flicker a never ending stream of images into the victims brain. The 
victim is forced to see everything in the vicinity, without any order. 
The victim experiences everything from every angle, from the 
inside out. He will be unable to do much. Prolonged use of this rote 
can lead to catatonia or (in rare cases) enlightenment.

Activate Demon Process (Correspondence 3 Spirit 2)
The adept reaches out into the network, releasing search programs 
and invocation routines to activate one of the present elementals. 
The spirit can perform small tasks, like debugging, searching, 
surveillance or help with programming. 
[ Each success will give the spirit one dot in a mental attribute or 
ability. If the mage got 4 successes, he could summon a spirit with 
5 intelligence, or a spirit with computer 4 or any other 
combination.] 

Grip of Darth Vader (Correspondence 4)
The Adept wear a virtual-reality gauntlet, and makes a strangling 
grip in the air. A victim, who can be anywhere, suddenly feels the 
strangling grip around his neck as the mage bilokates the pressure 
of the gauntlet. Since there is nothing for the victim to pry loose, 
even the most physically weak adept can strangle people.

Curse of Raistlin (Entropy 1 Mind 2)
The mage opens the mind of the victim to the precense of entropy 
in all things. Euthanatos point their bone against the victim, 
mumbling something incoherent and mournful. The victim is 
cursed, forced to see the entropy present in everything. Nothing the 
victim feel is free from the taint of decay. He will feel how 
everybody is slowly dying and nothing will remain forever. This 
curse will make most normal people very depressed, and if the 
curse persists long enough many victims become insane or commit 
suicide.

Summon the Servitors of Decay (Entropy 1 Spirit 2)
The mage summons some of the spirits of entropy in an area of 
entropy, like a garbage dump, a dying person or a condemned 
house. Euthanatos usually do this by asking a question while 
rattling the rattle and then throw the bones. The answer is found 
depending on how the bones fall. The spirits of entropy are not 
very good at answering questions about anything that does not 
involve entropy and randomness. They cannot tell if anybody have 
passed them, but can give detailed descriptions of the flow of 
entropy around a murder victim or tell in what way a glass was 
broken.

Protection against the Winds of Randomness (Entropy 2)
The mage surround himself with a field of negative randomness, 
giving him some protection against random events (like getting the 
poisoned drink on the tray, winning on lottery or being hit by a 
falling flower-pot). When the mage uses this rote, he takes some 
item from the vicinity, like a four-leaf clower, a napkin or a coin. 
This object will become the "lucky thing". This item will partially 
show how much "luck" remains or if the rote successfully defends 
the mage. When the rote ends, the "lucky thing" will be lost or 
destroyed.
[ Each success protects against one random event. Random events 
are events where the different possibilities are about the same 
probability and do not depend on somebody or somethings 
conscious descision. The rote will protect against all randomness, 
even beneficial. It will not work against coincidential magick.]

Random Message (Entropy 2 Correspondence 2)
Used mainly by the Players and Cultists, but some Virtual Adepts have 
developed their own Video-Game version. By reaching out with his mind, a 
player of a game of chance can contact another player, if he is playing 
the game somewhere else. By influencing the game, he can send messages 
to the other. These messages are naturally limited to what the game can 
show and what the other mage can interpret (for example 9 of Swords, 10 
of Swords, the Tower, 9 of Wands and Death is a quite obvious "GET THE 
HELL OUT OF THERE!!!"). 

The Wheel Cannot Hold (Entropy 3)
The mage quickly rotates a small bone on a string and let it go, or 
throw their dices so they drop off the table. The mage channels 
randomness into an area (for example a building). The result is that 
lots of random and disorderly things start to happen. Sprinklers 
will activate, printers will start to print gibberish, computers 
crasch, documents are lost, wallpapers come loose and the lettering 
on doors fall partially off, revealing new, interesting messages.

This Corrosion (Entropy 3 Prime 2)
A classic rote of the Hollow Ones. The mage touches an object, 
creating a spreading pattern of entropy. While the object appear 
unchanged on the surface, it decays inside. The effect spreads 
inside the object, and may infect other objects which touch it. The 
affected object will break if it is stressed the least. If the mage uses 
this rote on the chassi of a car, it will spread to the motor and 
wheels. When someone touches or try to use the car, it will 
desintgerate.Some mages direct the spread of entropy towards 
certain objects.
