Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 13:18:32 -0800
From: "Michael L. Singer" <msinger@INETWORLD.NET>
Reply-To: Discussion of White Wolf's World of Darkness
     <MAGE-L@ORACLE.WIZARDS.COM>
To: Multiple recipients of list MAGE-L <MAGE-L@ORACLE.WIZARDS.COM>
Subject: Qabala and the Umbra (a bit long)

I was riding the bus home from college today and I was thinking about where
the angels and demons might exactly be found and that sort of thing, based
on the Qabalistic cosmology.  I was thinking on the subject of Malkuth, the
10th Sephira that is supposed to represent the Elements but can be seen as
the planet Earth as well.  This is what I came up.

God rules both the Holy and the Unholy, residing in the 10th Heaven
(Aravoth) and the 10th Hell (Tartarus), all located in Atziluth (Deep Umbra)

The 9th thru 1st Heavens/Hells reside in both Briah (Near Umbra)(inhabited
by the ruling Archangels/Archdemons) and Yetzirah (Penumbra)(inhabited by
the Angelic Choir/Demonic Horde).  Each Heaven has a base in all the planets
except Pluto, residing in Assiah (Material).  To recap:

God (Atziluth)(Deep Umbra)              10th Heaven/Hell
Archangels (Briah)(Near Umbra)          9th Heaven thru 1st Heaven
Archdemons (Briah)(Near Umbra)          9th Hell thru 1st Hell
Angelic Choir (Yetzirah)(Peunumbra)     9th Heaven thru 1st Heaven
Demonic Horde (Yetzirah)(Penumbra)      9th Hell thru 1st Hell
Man (Assiah)(Material)                  Planets

Here, if you are familar with the Qabala Tree of Life, you'll that God makes
up an entire tree in Atziluth, there is an Archangel/Archdemon for each
Sephira/Qlippoth, and an Angelic Choir/Demonic Horde for each
Sephira/Qlippoth.  But notice that as you go down the list for the
Heavens/Hells, using the Tree of Life glyph, you come to the Malkuth level
with no more Heavens/Hells.  But, assuming that the Angelic Choir for this
level is the Ishim, or Souls, then maybe it would appropriate to say that
the Malkuth level Heaven/Hell could be where Trascended/Descended wraiths
are to be found.  So the Low Umbra could literally be the Purgatory of the
Church, "Too bad for Heaven, too good for Hell..."  Anyone else follow?

Michael L. Singer
("You alone can make my song take flight...  Help me make the music of the
night!" - Phantom from ALW's musical, "Phantom of the Opera"

