VERBENA ROTES
by Andrew E. Larsen
aelarsen@students.wisc.edu

	Verbena magic tries to work with nature as much as possible, 
both in order to avoid disrupting it and to reduce the possibility of 
paradox.  The Verbena excel at shapeshifting, and employ it in a 
variety of unexpected ways.  Temporary alterations to other life 
forms are accepted, but permanent changes are discouraged except 
as a punishment.  They have a strong belief in the principle that 
one's actions return to oneself three times over, which discourages 
them from harming others without good cause, and they prefer to 
avoid confrontation by misdirecting opponents and deceiving them.  
But when they do decide to fight, they employ brutal magics and do 
not hesitate to kill their enemies.

Mapping the Track (Correspondence 1 Prime 1)

	The Verbena feel that Quintessence flows across the surface of 
the earth in streams that are called Ley Lines, also known as the Old 
Straight Track.  Ley Lines come in Minor, Major, and Great versions, 
which fasciliatate the casting of Correspondence, Prime, and Spirit 
magics.  For this reason, many Verbena holy sites are situated on 
them.
(Two successes will locate a Minor line, 4 successes a Major line, and 
six successes a Great line.  A Minor line reduces the difficulty of 
Correspondence, Prime, and Spirit magics cast in its vacinity by 1, a 
Major line by 2, and a Great line by 3.)

Laying the Line (Correspondence 2 Prime 3)

	This spell requires a complex ritual, in which the druid begins 
at a Node and walks to another point, dragging his blood-smeared 
staff in the dirt all the way.  If successful, Quintessence will begin to 
flow along the line.  Thereafter, by standing on the line, the Node can 
be tapped, without having to be present at it.

Walking the Old Straight Track (Correspondence 3 or 4)

	Ley Lines fascilitate travel for those who know how to employ 
them.  They allow the witch to walk almost instanteously from any 
point on the line to any other point on it.
(Correspondence 3 transports the witch, while at the 4th level, she 
can take others with her.  So long as no Sleepers witness the 
departure or arrival, the effect is coincidental.)
 
Tapping the Ley Line (Prime 5)

	This rote allows the witch to drain off some of the Quintessence 
that flows along Ley lines.
(Each success gives the caster 1 pt of Quintessence)

Sense the Land (Correspondence 2 Life 2 Mind 1)

	First employed by the witch Brangian to keep track of the 
Saxons who were raiding her land, this rote has become a standard 
survaillence effect among the Verbena.  The witch extends her 
senses and merges them with those of the plants and small animals 
in a given region.
(The Life magic allows the witch to blend her perceptions with those 
lives around her, while the Mind sphere enables her to understand 
the sensations she receives.  Because her awareness is covered by 
the lives in the area, this effect is very difficult to detect.  Every 
success increases the difficulty of detection by one.)

Transcendent Touch (Life 1 Mind 1)

	The Lifeweaver Edwin Stroud once found himself blinded by 
the muzzle flash of a Hitmark's cannon.  Desperate to escape but 
lacking any knowledge of the Correspondence sphere, he instead 
relied on his powerfully heightened sense of touch, a sense 
particularly favored by his Tradition.
(The rote makes the witch's sense of touch so strong that it 
compensates for the lack of sight.)

Murder of Crows (Life 2 or 4  Mind 2, sometimes Prime 2)
	
	A favored spell of the Twisters of Fate, this enables a witch to 
conjure a swarm of creatures which will do her bidding, usually by 
attacking a target, with only a wave of her blood-smeared staff.
(This spell will summon, or with Prime 2, create a swarm of animals.  
With Life 2, it will summon insects or other invertibrates, while with 
Life 4, it will produce birds, rodents, or other small creatures, up to 
the size of cats.  The control she has is limited, and only simple 
commands are possible.)

Tongue of the Adders (Life 2 Mind 2)

	This simple rote has a history dating back to ancient Greece, 
but it is still common today.
(This spell allows the witch to speak with and understand animals.  
Most animals, it should be noted, have very simple thoughts, and few 
have much to say about anything other than food, safety, and 
procreation.)

Fury of the Fields (Forces 3 Life 2 Prime 2)
	
	This is another old spell which summons the power of the land 
to the witch's aid.  It animates plants and causes them to attack a 
target.
(Each success gives the plants 1 pt of Dexterity to attack with and 2 
pts of Strength for purposes of damage.  With 2 successes the witch 
can animate grasses and flowers, 3 will animate vines and bushes, 
and 4 or more will enliven whole trees.  The effect is inevitably 
vulgar, but it terrifies most opponents.)

Bride of Flowers (Life 2 Forces 3 Prime 2, sometimes Mind 5)

	The Tradition is divided over the morality of this rote, and its 
use is not as common as it once was.  It originated in first century 
Gaul, when a Roman commander demanded that a group of Verbena 
provide him with a bride or be destroyed.  Loathe to submit to him, 
the circle created a wife for him from a mass of flowers and he 
remained in ignorance of her true nature until she killed him.  The 
people created from this spell have been used as servants, travelling 
companions, decoys and assassins.
(If successful, the rote transforms a mass of living plant matter into 
the semblence of a human.  In its basic form, the 'bride' is little 
better than a zombie, capable of following only the simplest orders.  
With the application of the Mind sphere, the 'bride' gains full 
sentience, and at least one Bride eventually Awoke.)

Strength of Antaeus (Life 3)

	Another old Greek rote, this one is employed mostly by the  
Twisters of Fate, who like the way it reminds the caster of her 
dependence upon the earth by allowing her to tap the earth's 
strength.
(Each success give the witch 2 points of Strength as long as she is in 
direct contact with the earth.  If she breaks contact with the soil, the 
strength immediately fades, but returns when contact is re-
established.  If someone attempts to lift or otherwise move her off 
the soil, she resists with her full strength, regardless of whether she 
has leverage or not.)

Couvade (Life 3, sometimes Correspondence 2)

	The entire army of Ulster was brought to its knees by the use 
of this Verbena rote in the fifth century.  While it has never again 
been used on such a scale, it remains a potent spell, as many of the 
Tradition's enemies have discovered to their discomfort.  It transfers 
physical pain from one target, usually the caster, to another.  In the 
case of the Irish army, they were forced to experience labor pains, 
but the pains of battle injuries are the most common sensation.
(If successful, the target will suffer all the pain and wound penalties 
experienced by the person he is connected to, although the wounds 
themselves are not transferred.  Hollow Ones have developed a 
similar spell they call the Corsican Game.)

Drawing Out Blood (Life 3)

	As the Verbena like to say, 'Blood calls to blood', and this brutal 
rote is an application of that idea.  The witch bleeds herself and then 
uses the blood to draw blood out from the target.  If the target 
already has injuries, they will bleed copiously.  If they don't, they 
spontaneously start hemorrhaging from various orifaces.  Repeated 
use of this effect is generally fatal to the target, but that's the point.
(This rote does a level of damage for each success, and cannot be 
soaked.  Exactly how the bleeding occurs determines whether the 
rote is vulgar or not.)

Second Body (Life 5, Prime 2, sometimes Mind 5, Correspondence 2)

	While most Traditions use Co-location if someone needs to be in 
more than one place at a time, the Verbena prefer to create a 
duplicate of the person out of their own blood.  This person shares 
the awareness of the original and they are usually mentally linked, 
but the second body is physically independant of the first and can 
suffer harm or even death without serious effect to the original.
(The duplicate is physically identical, but it lacks a true spirit or 
avatar, and so cannot perform magic.  The Mind component is 
necessary to fill the body with a functional personality.  If it is left 
out, the duplicate will be a simple programmed robot.  The 
Correspondence component allows mental contact and can be omitted 
if not desired.  The duplicate will die when the spell expires.)

Swarm of Bugs (Life 5 Mind 2)

	This rote is a good example of the skill at shapechanging 
attained by some Lifeweavers.  With it, the witch transforms not into 
a single creature, but into an entire mass of them, usually insects or 
rodents.
(The Mind sphere allows the witch to maintain her single 
consciousness while her body is divided into many units.  It requires 
at least three successes to work, in which case the witch may 
function as a swarm.  While the swarm can be blown around or 
evaded, it is difficult to harm enough of the swarm to cause serious 
damage to the witch.  The witch is immune to attacks that do not 
effect an area.)

Poseidon's Wrath (Forces 5, sometimes Correspondence 2)

	Yet another ancient spell (the Verbena have a strong 
appreciation for traditional things, and this includes time-honored 
rotes), this one creates an earthquake.
(The intensity of the earthquake is determined by the number of 
successes, with each success rising one step on the Richter scale.  A 
magnitude of 1 or 2 is barely even perceptible, while the most 
severe earthquakes ever recorded had a magnitude of 8.7 and killed 
several hundred thousand people.  For a sense of scale, in 1988 a 
earthquake of 6.9 killed 28,000 people in  Armenia.  The earthquake 
that hit San Francisco a year later had the same magnitude but killed 
only 65 people because of quake-proof architectural standards.   The 
1906 earthquake in San Francisco was an estimated 8.3.   Adding 
Correspondence to the effect will increase the area of the quake. 
Since earthquakes do not always produce fore and aftershocks, this 
effect is usually coincidental, but highly discouraged.)

The Moon's Pure Light (Mind 3)

	River Dancer, a Moon-Seeker, used this rote to penetrate the 
disguise of a Nosferatu bent on killing her, and it has become popular 
since then as a way of detecting those with deceptive intent.
(This spell allows the witch to see the target as he truly is.  Successes 
count as countermagic against illusions and similar Mind magic.  If 
the caster scores at least 4 successes, she also learns the target's 
Nature.)

Race Memory (Mind 3 Life 1 Time 2)
	
	A common spell of the Gardeners, this enables the witch to 
search the memories of her ancestors.
(Each success acts as 1 pt of Dream and allows the caster to reach one 
generation back.  Unlike the normal Dream ability, specific facts can 
be retrieved.)

Threefold Return (Entropy 4)

	Using the principle that evil done returns to the doer three 
times, the Druid Hwyll employed this effect to discourage attacks on 
his person.  When the Celestial Chorus finally captured and slew him, 
all those involved perished within a year.
(Casting this rote invovles a ritual bath in a cauldron.  From that 
point on, any harm intentionally done to the bather during the 
duration of the effect will eventually return three times upon the 
person causing the harm.  The exact effects are left to the Storyteller, 
and they may involve an exact repetition of the harm or merely 
something equivalent.  The effect is never immediate, and in extreme 
cases may take months or years to play out.)

Hand of the Crone (Entropy 4 Time 4)

	The Danish witch Gunnhild invented this rote to enable her to 
destroy the Progenitors who slew the members of her coven, and the 
more bloody-minded members of the Tradition continue to employ it 
to bring sudden death to their enemies.
(The witch employing this effect must make physical contact with 
her target after ritually annointing her body with a potion brewed in 
her cauldron and stirred with her wand.  This sets the effect in 
motion, and the Time sphere causes the rote to hang for period of 
time until the Entropy sphere suddenly causes catastrophic damage 
to the victim.)

Warning Curse (Time 4)

	The ancient Verbena reputation for effective curses rests in no 
small part on the power of this rote, by which the witch warns that 
dire consequences will strike the target if he fulfills the conditions 
set by the witch.
( This spell is cast in conjunction with a second one.  The Time sphere 
allows the witch to specify a moment or condition which will trigger 
the second spell.  There are many versions of this, but one familiar 
example is "On your sixteenth birthday, you will prick your finger on 
a spindle and die."  Another example is "If you strike your wife three 
times, you will lose your family and property.")


