From nv91-asa@zwart.nada.kth.se Mon Jan 10 13:01:55 1994
Date: Mon, 10 Jan 1994 12:21:46 +0100 (MET)
From: Anders Sandberg <nv91-asa@zwart.nada.kth.se>
Subject: Re: Third World Mages
To: mage-l@wizards.com
Message-ID: <Pine.3.87.9401101245.A7794-0100000@zwart.nada.kth.se>

I agree completely that White Wolf has made the traditions too Western.
To some extent this can be explained by assuming the European traditions
have expanded in the wake of the Technomancers (See my posting about
the Technocracys methods). But mostly I think it is because WW don't 
know enough about possible traditions from other cultures, and neither
does most players (What traditions exist in the Phillipines?). After all,
it is hard for most players to relate to traditions completely outside 
their own culture (I personally feel quite out of my depth when 
discussing the Akashic Brotherhood, Dreamspekers and Hollow Ones. My 
players repeatedly points out that I have a hermetic bias. :-)

To some extent, the Traditions described are just groupings of mages with 
similar methods. There was mages at the Emperors court in China who were 
most definitely hermetic, but completely unlike the western hermetics. A 
shaman from the Aleutian tribes would recognize parts of the magick of a 
African medicine man, but would probably disagree quite a bit with him 
about how the universe worked and what the spirits wanted. The traditions 
describe a western perspective of multicultural groupings with 
similar methods. I think the idea of well organized, cooperating 
traditions is simply not working. Even with the technomancer threat, many 
groups will not cooperate with the "Traditions". 

Maybe the Traditions as described are the Western alliances against the 
Technocracy. Originally they were many disparate groups, which have been 
forced to work together against their mutual enemy. In less 
technocracified areas, they do not cooperate ("What? Would we, the True 
Tantric Brotherhood of Bombay cooperate with you, the Sisters of 
Delight? Begone, impure ......!")

I also think that the idea of central chantries is somewhat flawed. Many
traditions do not have any central organization. Akashic Brotherhood
seems to be divided into many sects, each with its own centre. Cult of
Ecstasy is quite different in the East and West (compare a Tantric mage
with the pot-smoking rebel in Berkeley). Euthanatos and Verbena certainly
are very disorganized except on the local level. Order of Hermes is split 
into many fractions. To run a central chantry the tradition must also be 
able to communicate, and to travel to it. How long did it take the members 
of Verbena to travel to Schwartzwald  from India in the 10th century?

I prefer to think of the "central chantries" as the largest, and 
currently most influential chantries. Cordoba may not do much good 
against the technomancers, but the traditional hermetics are protecting 
it and its treasures. Other chantries may be up and coming, and different 
fractions may have different centra. The Alchemists have Prague, the 
Cabalists Cordoba and the Rosicrucians Vienna. 

Finally, I also agree that the Celestial Chorus is definitely not 
Christian. They may be behind many monotheistic religions; "First spread 
the idea of one god to make people ready for the Truth, then we can 
preach It safely." Unfortunately the plan backfired somewhat, as people 
became quite fanatic about the beliefs the CC just wanted to use to 
spread their ideas, and the CC became tangled up in religious hierarchy. 
They have much more in common with the heretical sects the Church crushed 
in its ascension to power during the end of the Roman Empire, than with 
Christianity.

All in all, I think the Traditions are usable, not as actual 
organizations but as examples of the differing beliefs and methods of 
mages. A member of the Sons of Ether do not necessarily have to be a mad 
scientist in a secret lab, he could be a particle physicist questing for 
Grand Unification (Read "Dark Matter" by Garfield Reeves-Smith for a 
really nasty Son of Ether along these lines). A Hermetic mage do not 
necessarily wave pentacles and chant Latin, she could be a priest in 
Japan. And so on.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Anders Sandberg				  	    Towards Ascension!
nv91-asa@hemul.nada.kth.se
GCS/M/S/O d++ -p+ c+++ !l u+ e++ m++ s+/+ n--- h+/* f+ g+ w++ t+ r+ !y

